name: Alteration Effect
version: "1.4"
rule_text: |
  An alteration effect modifies the resolution of an ability that precedes it. The types of alteration effects are “additional,” “already,” and “each time” effects.
  **Additional** - The word “additional” denotes a modifier to an ability or game state. The additional modifier is resolved simultaneously with any ability it is modifying and under the same conditions as that ability. _(For example, Repulsor Blast reads: “Hero Action (attack): Deal 1 damage to an enemy
  and discard the top 5 cards of your deck. For each printed
  resource discarded this way, deal 2 additional damage to
  that enemy.”)_
  **Already** - The word "already" denotes the resolution of an
  alternate ability if a specific condition is met. The "already"
  effect checks if this condition is met before the preceding
  ability attempts to resolve. If so, the "already" effect
  resolves instead. _(For example, I'm Tough reads: "When
  Revealed: Give Rhino a tough status card. If Rhino already
  has a tough status card, this card gains surge."_,
  **Each Time** - The phrase "each time" denotes a temporary
  interruption to a resolving ability. When a condition is met
  that is specified by the "each time" effect, the resolution
  of the preceding ability halts, the "each time" effect
  resolves in its entirety, then the preceding ability continues
  resolving. _(For example, "You Dare Oppose Me?" reads:
  "When Revealed: Discard the top 5 cards of the encounter
  deck. Each time a card belonging to the Kree Fanatic set is
  discarded this way, deal that card to yourself as a facedown
  encounter card.")_
See also: Ability, Replacement Effect, Triggered Ability
"AND"
The word "and" indicates that two or more effects within
an ability resolve simultaneously.
Individual effects connected by "and" are not
dependent on each other. As long as at least one of
the effects can change the game state, resolve as
much of the ability as possible.
Each effect connected by "and" can be canceled or
prevented independently.
See also: Ability, Cancel, Prevent
ARROW ICON
See: Cost Arrow Icon
ASPECT CARD
Cards in the "aspect" classification are any cards that
belong to the Aggression, Justice, Leadership, and/or
Protection aspects.
When building a player deck, a player must choose
one of the four aspects (Aggression, Justice,
Leadership, or Protection) to use for customization.
The remainder of their deck (the portion not
allocated to their identity-specific cards) can then
be customized with cards that belong to the chosen
aspect.
A card's aspect is designated by the aspect's name
printed at the bottom of the card in its deckbuilding
classification area.
See also: Basic Card, Classifications, Identity-Specific Card,
Appendix I: Deck Customization
See: Attack (Player Action), Basic Power
ATTACHMENT
Attachment is an encounter card type.
When an attachment enters play, it attaches to another card
or game element.
If an attachment attaches to the villain, it may modify
the villain's ATK and/or SCH values, as indicated by
the values in the associated fields on the attachment
card.
See also: Attach To, Encounter Card, Enters Play
ATTACH TO
If a card uses the phrase "attach to", it must be attached to
(placed beneath and slightly overlapped by) the specified
game element as it enters play.
Once a card is attached, it remains in play until either
the element it is attached to leaves play (in which
case the attached card is discarded) or an ability or
game effect causes the attached card to leave play.
ALTER-EGO, ALTER-EGO FORM
See: Form, Identity
AMPLIFY ICON (7)
The amplify icon represents various forces that are
empowering or bolstering the villain.
When a boost card is turned faceup during an enemy
activation, add one additional boost icon to that card for
each amplify icon in play.
See also: Activation, Boost, Enemy, Icons
An attached card exhausts and readies independently
of the game element it is attached to.
The "attach to" phrase is checked for legality when
the card would be attached to a game element, but it
is not checked again after it is attached. If the initial
"attach to" check does not pass, the card is not able
to be attached, so it remains in its prior state or game
area. If such a card cannot remain in its prior state or
game area, discard it.
ATTACK (ENEMY ACTIVATION)
An attack is a type of enemy activation. When an enemy
attacks, it targets a specific player, then resolves that attack
against that player. To resolve an enemy attack, follow these
steps:
1.
If a villain, or a minion with the villainous keyword, is
attacking, give it one facedown boost card from the
encounter deck. (If a minion without the villainous
keyword is attacking, skip this step.)
2.
If a player wishes to defend, that player exhausts a hero
or ally as the defender. If a player other than the target
player defends, the defending player becomes the
target player for this attack.
3.
Flip each of the attacking enemy's boost cards faceup
one at a time. (If a minion without the villainous
keyword is attacking, skip this step.) Then, in order:
Resolve any "Boost" abilities, indicated by the star
icon in the boost field.
Increase the attacking enemy's ATK value by one for
each boost icon on the card.
Discard each boost card after it is resolved.
4.
Deal damage from the attack equal to the attacking
enemy's modified ATK value, based on the following:
If a hero makes a basic defense against the attack,
the amount of damage dealt is reduced by that hero's
DEF value, and the remaining damage from the attack
is dealt to that hero.
If an ally defends against the attack, all damage from
the attack is dealt to the ally. (If the ally is defeated by
the attack, additional damage does not carry over to
the identity.)
If no character defends against the attack, the
attack is considered undefended. All damage from
the attack is dealt to the target player's identity (even
if that identity is in alter-ego form).
See also: Activation, Ally, Boost, Damage, Defend, Enemy,
Identity, Minion, Target, Villain, Villainous
ATK
ATTACK (PLAYER ACTION)
Some game effects and card abilities reference an attack.
There are a few different ways an attack can occur:
A hero can use their basic attack power to attack an
enemy. A hero must exhaust to use this power. This
deals damage equal to the hero's ATK value to the
enemy.
An ally can use its basic attack power to attack an
enemy. This deals damage equal to the ally's ATK
value to the enemy.
If a triggered ability is labeled as an attack-such
as "Hero Action attack)"-resolving that ability is
considered to attack the specified target. Unless
specified by the ability's text, a hero does not exhaust
when using such an ability.
Hero and ally attacks can target any enemy, unless a
card ability (such as guard) is preventing that enemy
from being attacked.
Enemies can attack during step two of the villain
phase.
Card abilities can cause the villain and/or minions to
attack at other times if the ability explicitly instructs
the villain or minion to "attack."
See also: Ally, Basic Power, Damage, Defend, Enemy,
Identity, Minion, Target, Villain
BASE VALUE
A defined value before modifiers are applied. In most cases,
it is also the printed value.
See also: Modifiers, Printed
BASIC CARD
Cards in the "Basic" classification are cards that are not
associated with a specific identity or aspect.
When building a deck, a player may customize the
remainder of their deck (the portion not allocated to
their identity-specific cards) using basic cards.
A card is designated as basic if it has the word
"Basic" printed at the bottom of the card in its
deckbuilding classification area.
Basic cards are not aspect cards.
See also: Aspect Card, Classifications, Identity-Specific
Card, Appendix I: Deck Customization
BASIC POWER
A basic power is a statistic that allows a character to
perform a certain game function. There are five different
basic powers:
Attack power (ATK) can be used by a character to
perform a basic attack and deal damage to another
character. Generally, heroes, allies, villains, and
minions have attack power.
Thwart power (THW) can be used by a character
to perform a basic thwart and remove threat from
a scheme. Generally, heroes and allies have thwart
power.
Defense power (DEF) can be used by a character to
perform a basic defense and prevent damage from an
attack. Generally, only heroes have defense power.
Recovery power (REC) can be used by a character
to perform a basic recovery and heal damage from
themself. Generally, only alter-egos have recovery
power.
Scheme power (SCH) can be used by a character to
perform a basic scheme and place threat on the main
scheme. Generally, villains and minions have scheme
power.
See also: Ally, Attack (Enemy Activation), Attack (Player
Action), Defense, Identity, Minion, Recover, Scheme (Enemy
Activation), Thwart
BOOST, BOOST ICON (Y)
Each time the villain attacks or schemes,
the villain is given one facedown card
from the encounter deck, as a boost card.
During the activation (and after any
BOOST ICONS
defenders are declared if the villain is
attacking), all boost cards on the villain
are turned face up one at a time. Add the number of boost
icons on the card to the villain's ATK value (if it is attacking)
or SCH value (if it is scheming) for that activation. Boost
icons are located at the bottom-right of the card.
If the boost field has a star icon, it indicates that the card
has a "Boost" ability. Refer to the card's text box and
resolve the "Boost" ability when the card is turned face up.
The "Boost" ability is located beneath the divider line in the
A star icon is not itself considered a boost icon, and
does not contribute to the villain's ATK or SCH value.
Only the ability text beneath the divider line is active
on a card that is resolving as a boost card.
If additional boost cards are resolved for an
activation, the boost icons are cumulative, and all
"Boost" abilities on those cards resolve.
After applying a boost card to an activation, discard it.
See also: Attack (Enemy Activation), Scheme (Enemy
Activation), Star Icon
CAMPAIGN MODE
See: Modes of Play
A 100
text box.
CAMPAIGN-SPECIFIC CARD
Cards in the "campaign-specific" classification are cards
that belong to a campaign's set of accompanying cards.
Campaign-specific cards can only be used during
campaign from the same product (determined by that
product's set icon).
A campaign's rules determine how players utilize
campaign-specific cards within that campaign.
A campaign-specific card is designated by the word
"Campaign" printed at the bottom of the card in its
encounter set name area.
See also: Campaign, Classification
CANCEL
Some card abilities can cancel card or game effects.
Cancel abilities interrupt the initiation of effects and
prevent them from initiating.
Anytime the effects of an ability are canceled, the
ability (apart from its effects) is still regarded as
initiated, and any costs are still paid. Only the effects
are prevented from initiating, and do not resolve.
If the effects of an event card are canceled, the card
is still considered played, and it is discarded.
If the effects of a treachery card are canceled, the
card is still regarded as revealed, and it is still placed
in the encounter discard pile.
See also: Ability
CANNOT
The word "cannot" is absolute and cannot be
countermanded by other abilities or effects.
CARD ABILITY
See: Ability
CARD TYPES
A card's card type denotes various rules and game functions
associated with that card.
Ally, event, identity, resource, support, and upgrade
cards are types of player cards.
Attachment, environment, main scheme, minion,
obligation, side scheme, treachery, and villain cards
are types of encounter cards.
If an ability causes a card to change its card type,
it loses all other card types it might possess and
functions as would any card of the new card type.
See also: Ally, Attachment, Encounter Card, Environment,
Event, Identity, Main Scheme, Minion, Obligation, Player
Card, Resource Cards, Side Scheme, Support, Treachery,
Upgrade, Villain, Appendix III: Card Anatomy
CHARACTER
Identities (heroes and alter-egos), allies, villains, and minions
are all characters.
See also: Ally, Identity, Minion, Villain
CHOOSE
The word "choose" indicates that a player must select a
game element that meets the specific requirements of an
ability.
The player resolving the ability that uses the word
"choose" is the player who makes the choice
specified by the card.
If a player card ability requires the choosing of a
target, and there is no valid target, the ability cannot
be initiated.
If multiple targets are required to be chosen by the
same player, simultaneously choose as many as are
available, to a maximum of the specified number.
An effect that can choose "any number" of targets
does not successfully resolve (and cannot change the
game state) if zero of those targets are chosen.
A card is not an eligible target for an ability if the
resolution of that ability's effect could not change the
card's state.
See also: Ability, Player, Target
CLASSIFICATIONS
A card's classification is the group that a card belongs to as
determined by its specific attributes.
Cards in the "identity-specific" classification are cards
that belong to an identity's set of accompanying
Cards in the "aspect" classification are cards that
belong to the Aggression, Justice, Leadership, and/or
Cards in the "Basic" classification are not associated
with a specific identity or aspect. (See: Basic Card)
Cards in the "scenario-specific" classification are
cards that belong to a scenario's set of accompanying
Cards in the "modular encounter set" or "modular
set" classification are cards that belong to a modular
set of encounter cards. (See: Modular Encounter Set)
Cards in the "campaign-specific" classification are
cards that can only be used during a campaign from
the same product. (See: Campaign-Specific Card)
Cards in the "Standard" classification are cards that
are added to most scenarios. (See: Modes of Play,
Standard Set)
Cards in the "Expert" classification are cards that are
added to scenarios when playing expert mode. (See:
Expert Set, Modes of Play)
a
cards. (See: Identity-Specific Card)
Protection aspects. (See: Aspect Card)
cards. (See: Scenario-Specific Card)
o
CONFUSE, CONFUSED
Confuse is a status that prevents a character from adding or
removing threat with its next scheme or thwart, respectively.
If an ability "confuses" a character, give that character
a confused status card.
If a character has an ability stating that it "cannot be
confused," confused status cards cannot be placed
on that character.
See also: Ally, Identity, Minion, Status Cards, Villain
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGE (2)
After an ally attacks, it takes consequential damage equal to
the number of consequential damage icons (2) beneath its
ATK field.
After an ally thwarts, it takes consequential damage equal
to the number of consequential damage icons (2) beneath
its THW field.
Consequential damage is dealt to an ally after
resolving abilities that are triggered by the ally
attacking or thwarting.
See also: Ally, Attack (Player Action), Basic Power, Damage,
Icons, Thwart
CONSTANT ABILITY
See: Ability
CONTROL
See: Ownership and Control
COPY
A copy of a card is defined by title. A second copy of a card
is any other card that shares the same title and subtitle (if
any), regardless of card's type, text, artwork, or any other
differing characteristics between the cards.
See also: Card Types, Subtitle
COST
A card's resource cost is the numerical value that must be
paid to play the card. Some abilities have a cost described
in the ability text that must be paid to use the ability.
A cost arrow icon (-) in ability text distinguishes a
cost from an effect, in a "pay cost resolve effect"
format.
While paying a cost, a player is permitted to generate
resources beyond the specified cost.
When generating resources to pay a cost, a player
is permitted to generate resources beyond the
specified cost. However, any resources that are
generated beyond the required cost are lost after
paying the cost.
If multiple costs for a single card or ability require
payment, those costs must be paid simultaneously.
DASH (VALUE)
If a character's power (ATK, DEF, REC, SCH, and THW) has
a dash (-) as the value, the character cannot exhaust to use
that power. If a game step or card ability references a power
with the value of dash (-), that value is treated as 0.
See also: Basic Power, Non-Numerical Variable
DEAL, DEAL AN ENCOUNTER CARD
During step three of the villain phase, each player is dealt
one facedown encounter card.
If a card ability instructs a player to be dealt an encounter
card, the player takes the top card of the encounter deck
and places it facedown in front of them. This card is not
revealed at this time. This card is added to the queue of
cards that player resolves during the villain phase.
If a player is dealt an encounter card during step
three or four of the villain phase, the extra encounter
card is added to the queue of cards that are being
dealt and revealed in those same steps.
See also: Ability, Encounter Card, Encounter Deck, Player,
Villain Phase
DECK
There are four main types of decks that appear in a game:
the player deck, the encounter deck, the villain deck, and
the main scheme deck. Certain identities or scenarios may
add other decks to the game.
The order of cards within a deck cannot be altered
unless a player is instructed to do so by a game step,
game function, or card ability.
See also: Encounter Deck, Main Scheme Deck, Player Deck,
Villain Deck
DECK CUSTOMIZATION
See: Appendix I: Deck Customization
DEF
See: Basic Power, Defense
DEFEAT
If a character has zero or fewer remaining hit points, or if a
side scheme has no threat on it, it is defeated.
If an ally, minion, or side scheme is defeated, it is
discarded.
If an identity or stage of the villain is defeated, it is
removed from the game.
See also: Ally, Hit Points, Minion, Player, Player Elimination,
Removed from the Game, Side Scheme, Villain, Villain
Defeat
An ability's cost cannot be paid if the resolution of
that ability's effect could not change the game state.
While a player is paying a cost, that player must pay
costs with cards and/or game elements they control.
If a cost requires a game element that is not in
play, the player paying the cost may only use game
elements that are in their own out-of-play areas.
Some card ability may reference an "additional cost."
A player must pay all additional costs simultaneously
with the cost that is being added to, even if multiple
cards or abilities are adding separate additional
costs. A player cannot pay the original cost or any of
the additional costs individually; if they cannot pay
for all of the costs at once, then they do not pay any
of the costs and the effect associated with the costs
does not occur.
See also: Ability, Cost Arrow Icon, Initiating Abilities,
Keywords
COST ARROW ICON
(-)
A cost arrow icon (-) in ability text distinguishes a cost from
effect, in a "pay cost resolve effect" format. Non-
bolded text before the cost arrow icon must be paid and/or
resolved in full before the text after the cost arrow icon can
be resolved.
See also: Cost, Icon
COUNTER
See: All-Purpose Counter
CRISIS ICON ()
While at least one crisis icon is in play, threat cannot be
removed from the main scheme by any player.
See also: Main Scheme, Threat
DAMAGE
Damage reduces a character's hit points.
If a character has zero or fewer remaining
1
hit points, it is defeated.
Damage on an identity or villain is tracked by a hit
point dial. If such a character is damaged, reduce its
dial by the amount of damage that it took.
Damage on an ally or minion is tracked by damage
tokens. If such a character is damaged, place the
specified value of damage tokens on the character.
See also: Component Limitations, Defeat, Hit Points, Indirect
Damage, Move, Prevent
DEFEND, DEFENSE
During an enemy attack, a player may defend against that
attack using cards they control.
Only one player at a time can defend against an
enemy attack. Once a player defends, no other player
can defend against that same attack.
A hero can use their basic defense power to defend
against an enemy attack. A hero must exhaust to
use this power. The amount of damage dealt by the
attack is reduced by the hero's DEF value, and any
remaining damage is dealt to that hero. Once a hero
defends against an attack, no other friendly character
can defend against that attack.
An ally can exhaust to defend against an enemy
attack. Damage from the attack is dealt to that ally.
Once an ally defends against an attack, no other
friendly character can defend against that attack.
When a player resolves a triggered ability labeled as
a defense-such as "Hero Interrupt (defense)" -that
player's identity becomes the defender and is
considered to have defended the attack (they do not
reduce the damage dealt by their DEF value). Unless
specified by the ability's text, a hero does not exhaust
when using such an ability. The defending player
may resolve any number of defense abilities during
an enemy attack (as long as the triggering conditions
of those abilities are met). Once a player resolves
a defense ability during an enemy attack, no other
player can resolve defense abilities for that same
attack.
If a player defends against an enemy attack that
targets a different player (either by defending with
a character they control or by resolving a defense
ability), the defending player becomes the new target
of that attack.
If no character is used to defend against an enemy
attack, that attack is considered undefended.
Additionally, if a defending ally is defeated before
damage from the attack is dealt (such as through
a "Boost" ability), the attack is considered
undefended.
See also: Ability, Ally, Attack (Enemy Activation), Damage,
Friendly, Identity, Player
DELAYED EFFECT
Some abilities contain delayed effects. Such abilities specify
a future timing point, or indicate a future condition that may
arise, and dictate an effect that is to happen at that time.
Delayed effects resolve automatically and
immediately after their specified timing point or
future condition occurs or becomes true, and before
responses to that point or condition may be used.
When a delayed effect resolves, it is not treated as a
new triggered ability, even if the delayed effect was
originally created by a triggered ability.
See also: Ability, Triggered Ability
an
DISCARD
Discarding is the act of attempting to move a card from
a non-discard-pile play area to a discard pile.
If a player card is discarded, it is placed faceup on top
of the owning player's discard pile.
If an encounter card is discarded, it is placed faceup
on top of the encounter discard pile.
If multiple cards are discarded simultaneously from
a player's hand or from play, place those cards in the
appropriate discard pile in any order.
If multiple cards are discarded simultaneously from
a deck, place those cards in the appropriate discard
pile one at a time (without changing the order).
See also: Discard Pile, Encounter Card, In Play and Out of
Play, Ownership and Control, Player Card, Shuffle
DISCARD PILE
A discard pile is an out-of-play area that contains cards that
have been discarded throughout the game.
Each player has their own discard pile, and the
encounter deck has its own discard pile.
Each discard pile is open information, and may be
looked at by any player at any time.
The order of cards in a discard pile may not be
changed unless a player is instructed to do so by a
card ability.
Any ability that would shuffle a discard pile of zero
cards back into a deck does not shuffle the deck.
See also: Discard, In Play and Out of Play, Ownership and
Control, Player, Shuffle
DRAW, DRAWING CARDS
If a player is instructed to draw one or more cards, those
cards are drawn from the top of their deck.
If a player draws two or more cards as the result of a
single game step or card ability, those cards are drawn
simultaneously.
Drawn cards are added to a player's hand.
Each player's hand size is checked at the end of the player
phase. If a player has more cards in their hand than their
hand size value at this time, they must choose and discard
cards from hand until they are at their hand size.
See also: Discard, In Play and Out of Play, Ownership and
Control, Player, Player Deck, Player Phase
"EACH TIME"
See: Alteration Effect
EFFECT
See: Ability, Cost
EMPTY DECK
See: Encounter Deck, Player Deck
ENCOUNTER CARD
There are eight encounter card types: attachment cards,
environment cards, minion cards, main scheme cards,
obligation cards, side scheme cards, treachery cards, and
villain cards.
Encounter cards belong to various classifications, such
as scenario-specific encounter cards or modular set
encounter cards.
Most encounter cards have an orange card back.
See also: Attachment, Classifications, Environment, Main
Scheme, Minion, Obligation, Side Scheme, Treachery,
Villain, Appendix I: Deck Construction
ENCOUNTER DECK
(attachments, environments, minions, side schemes, and
The order of cards within the encounter deck cannot
be changed unless a player is instructed to do so by a
If the encounter deck is empty, the encounter discard pile is
immediately shuffled to create a new encounter deck. When
this occurs, place an acceleration token next to the main
scheme deck.
If a card ability discards a specified number of
cards from the encounter deck or until a card with
specific criteria is discarded, discard cards from the
encounter deck until the discard condition is met or
the encounter deck is empty. If the encounter deck is
emptied this way, that card ability is considered to be
fulfilled. Do not continue the discard effect with the
newly shuffled encounter deck.
If there are no cards in both the encounter deck and
the encounter discard pile simultaneously (such as
all cards from the encounter deck being in play),
an infinite loop occurs with an infinite number of
acceleration tokens being placed next to the main
scheme deck. If this happens, the players lose.
See also: Acceleration Token, Attachment, Discard, Discard
See: Discard Pile
ENCOUNTER SET
There are four types of encounter sets: scenario-
specific encounter sets, modular encounter sets, the
The encounter deck contains the encounter cards
treacheries) that players can face during a scenario.
game step, game function, or card ability.
Pile, Environment, Minion, Side Scheme, Treachery
ENCOUNTER DISCARD PILE
An encounter set is a grouping of encounter cards.
Standard set, and the Expert set.
See also: Classifications, Expert Set, Modular Encounter
Set, Scenario-Specific Card, Standard Set
END OF PLAYER PHASE
To end the player phase, perform the following steps:
1.
In player order, each player may discard any number of
cards from their hand, and must discard down to their
hand size if they have more cards than their hand size.
2. Each player simultaneously draws up to their hand size.
3. Each player simultaneously readies all of their cards.
See also: Discard, Draw, Hand Size, Player, Player Phase,
Player Turn, Ready
ENEMY
An enemy is a minion or villain.
When used as a descriptor, "enemy" refers to game
elements that belong to the scenario: "enemy cards",
"enemy abilities" etc.
See also: Minion, Villain
ENEMY ACTIVATION
See: Activation, Attack (Enemy Activation), Scheme (Enemy
Activation)
ENEMY ATTACKS
See: Activation, Attack (Enemy Activation)
ENEMY SCHEMES
See: Activation, Scheme (Enemy Activation)
ENERGY RESOURCE (2)
An energy resource (2) is one of the four types of resources.
Energy resources can be spent to pay the resource
cost of cards and abilities.
Some card abilities specifically require energy
resources to be spent in order to resolve their effects.
See also: Ability, Cost, Icons, Mental Resource, Physical
Resource, Resource, Wild Resource
ENGAGE
After a minion enters play in a player's play area, it engages
that player.
Unless otherwise specified by the minion or by the effect
that put the minion into play, the minion engages the player
who is resolving the current encounter card.
An engaged minion remains engaged with the same
player until it is defeated, removed from play, or a
card ability causes it to engage another player.
If a card ability instructs a player to engage a minion,
that minion is also considered to have engaged that
player.
While a minion is engaged with a player, card abilities
cannot cause the minion to engage with the same
player again (as the two are already engaged).
See also: Ability, Defeat, Minion, Player, Player's Play Area
ENTERS PLAY
The phrase "enters play" refers to any time when a card
transitions from an out-of-play area into play. Playing a card,
putting a card into play by using a card ability, or revealing
a card from the encounter deck are all different means by
which a card may enter play.
See also: In Play and Out of Play, Leaves Play, Play, Put Into
Play, Reveal
ENVIRONMENT
Environment is an encounter card type that creates an
overarching rule or set of rules for the scenario.
An environment card enters play in the villain's play area,
and is active so long as it remains in play.
If an environment enters play, it remains in play until a
card ability or game effect causes it to leave play.
See also: Card Types, Encounter Card, Enters Play, Leaves
Play, Villain
EVENT
Event is a player card type that is generally played for an
instantaneous effect.
Each time a player plays an event card, its costs are paid,
its effects resolve (or are canceled), and the card is placed
in its owner's discard pile after those effects resolve (or are
canceled).
If the effects of an event are canceled, the card is still
considered to have been played, and its costs remain
paid. Only the effects are canceled.
Playing an event card from hand is always optional for
a player, unless the event uses the word "must" in its
play instructions.
An event card cannot be played unless the resolution
of its effect (ignoring costs) could change the game.
Event cards are considered to be an extension of an
identity. Attacks, thwarts, defenses, action abilities,
and triggered abilities that resolve from a player
playing an event are also considered to be performed
by that player's identity.
See also: Card Types, Discard, Identity, Player, Player Card,
Ownership and Control
EXCESS DAMAGE
Excess damage is any amount of damage that is dealt to
a character beyond that character's remaining hit points.
See also: Ally, Damage, Hit Points, Identity, Minion,
Remaining Hit Points, Villain
EXHAUSTED
If a card is exhausted, it is rotated 90 degrees.
An exhausted card cannot be exhausted again until it
is ready. Cards are typically readied by a game step
or card ability.
A card ability on an exhausted card is active and
can still interact with the game state. However, if an
exhausted card must exhaust to pay the cost of using
its ability, that ability cannot be used until the card
is ready.
See also: Ready
EXPERT MODE
See: Modes of Play
EXPERT SET
The expert set is an encounter set that is added to scenarios
during expert mode.
The expert set is not a modular encounter set and
cannot be selected (by the players or randomly) when
a scenario requires players to choose a modular
encounter set to include in that scenario.
Cards in the "Expert" classification are any cards that
have the word "Expert" printed by the bottom of the
card in its encounter set name area.
See also: Classifications, Modes of Play, Modular Encounter
Set, Appendix I: Deck Customization
FIRST PLAYER
A first player is determined by the players at the beginning
of the game.
The first player token is used to indicate which player is
the first player. At the end of the round (during step five of
the villain phase) the first player token passes to the next
clockwise player, who becomes first player for the next
round.
If the first player is eliminated, the first player token
immediately passes clockwise to the next player.
The players as a group are encouraged to work together,
but the first player decides the following:
If an encounter card targets a specific player or card,
and there are multiple eligible targets, the first player
selects among the eligible options.
If an encounter card requires a card ability to be
resolved, a game function to be performed, or a
choice to be made but does not specify which player
should act, the first player does SO.
If two or more effects would resolve simultaneously,
the first player decides the order in which to resolve
them.
The first player has timing priority in the following situations:
The first player has the first opportunity to use
an interrupt at each appropriate game moment.
Interrupt opportunities then proceed among the
remaining players in player order.
The first player has the first opportunity to use
a response at each appropriate game moment.
Response opportunities then proceed among the
remaining players in player order.
See also: In Player Order, Player, Player Elimination, Player
FORCED
Forced is a bold trigger word. If the word "Forced"
precedes a triggered ability, the ability's initiation is
mandatory.
For any given triggering condition, forced interrupts
take priority and initiate before non-forced interrupts,
and forced responses take priority and initiate before
non-forced responses.
If two or more forced abilities would initiate at the
same moment, the first player determines the order in
which the abilities initiate, regardless of who controls
the cards bearing those abilities.
Each forced ability must resolve as completely
as possible before the next forced ability being
triggered by the same triggering condition may
initiate.
See also: Triggered Ability
FORM, CHANGE FORM
A player can be in either hero or alter-ego form at a given
time. This is indicated by the player's identity card.
Once each round, during their turn, each player is
permitted to change form by flipping their identity
card.
When a player changes form, only the form changes.
The character retains their sustained damage, status
cards, lasting effects, attachments, tokens, and
current state (ready or exhausted).
If a card ability causes a player to change forms,
it does not count against the one voluntary form
change the player is permitted during their turn that
round.
While a player is in hero form, card abilities that
interact with their alter-ego do not interact with
their identity.
While a player is in alter-ego form, card abilities
that interact with their hero do not interact with
their identity.
See also: Identity
FRIENDLY
Friendly is a blanket term that refers to cards the players
Phase
control.
GAINS
If a card gains a characteristic (such as a trait, keyword, or
ability text), the card functions as if it possesses the gained
characteristic. Gained characteristics are not considered to
be printed on the card.
See also: Keywords, Printed, Trait
GENERATE
See: Resource
GETS
If a card ability causes a character to "get" a statistic (such
as +1 ATK or 4 hit points), the ability modifies the character's
statistic while it is active.
If such an ability expires or otherwise becomes
inactive, the modified statistic reverts to the value it
would have without the modifier.
If such an ability causes a character to get hit points,
it modifies the character's remaining hit points
while the ability remains active, and also modifies
the character's maximum hit points while the ability
remains active.
See also: Ally, Hit Points, Identity, Minion, Villain
GUARD
While a minion with the guard keyword is engaged with a
player, that player cannot use cards they control to attack a
villain without this keyword.
See also: Attack (Player Action), Engage, Keywords, Minion,
Reminder Text, Villain
HAND SIZE
Each player checks their hand size at the end of the player
phase, either discarding down to or drawing up to the
number of cards indicated by their hand size value.
See also: End of Player Phase
HAZARD ICON ()
During step three of the villain phase, for each hazard
icon on cards in play, deal an additional encounter card.
Additional cards are dealt in player order (first additional
card to the first player, the second to the second player,
etc.).
See also: Deal, Deal an Encounter Card, In Player Order,
Villain Phase
HEAL
If an ability heals a character, damage the character has
sustained can be removed from the character.
A heal effect can only bring a character to its
maximum hit points, unless the effect explicitly states
it can bring the character above its maximum.
See also: Ally, Gets, Hit Points, Identity, Minion, Villain
ICONS
Icons are game elements that represent various functions
within the game.
Energy Icon (2): An energy icon is a resource icon
that generates one energy resource when spent.
(See: Energy Resource)
Mental Icon (ib): A mental icon is a resource icon that
generates one mental resource when spent. (See:
Mental Resource)
Physical Icon (I): A physical icon is a resource icon
that generates one physical resource when spent.
(See: Physical Resource)
Wild Icon (*): A wild icon is a resource icon that
can generate one energy, mental, physical, or wild
resource when spent. (See: Wild Resource)
Acceleration Icon (3) An acceleration icon places
additional threat on the main scheme during the
villain phase. (See: Acceleration Icon)
Amplify Icon (+)): An amplify icon increases the
number of boost icons on boost cards during enemy
activations by one. (See: Amplify Icon)
Crisis Icon A crisis icon prevents players from
removing threat from the main scheme. (See: Crisis
Icon)
Hazard Icon (): A hazard icon increases the number
of encounter cards that are dealt to players during the
villain phase. (See: Hazard Icon)
Boost Icon (Y): A boost icon increases the activating
enemy's ATK or SCH value during enemy activations.
(See: Boost)
Star Icon (*): A star icon is used in conjunction with
a card's stat or boost field to indicate that there is a
mandatory ability in the text box that corresponds to
that field. (See: Star Icon)
Consequential Damage Icon (2): A consequential
damage icon is used in conjunction with an ally's
ATK field or THW field. After an ally attacks or
thwarts, it takes one consequential damage for
each consequential damage icon in that field. (See:
Consequential Damage)
Per Player Icon (2): A per player icon next to a value
multiplies that value by the number of players who
started the scenario. (See: Per Player Icon)
Unique Icon (+): A unique icon in a card's title
indicates the card is unique. (See: Unique Icon)
IDENTITY
Identity is a player card type that represents which character
a player is playing in the game.
A player's identity card is a double-sided card that
represents their hero on one side and their alter-ego on the
other. The side that is face up indicates the form (hero or
alter-ego) that player is currently in.
Each player begins the game in alter-ego form.
HERO, HERO FORM
See: Form, Identity
HEROIC MODE
See: Modes of Play
HINDER X
When a card with the hinder X keyword is revealed, place
X threat on that card. (X is the value next to the hinder
keyword.)
See also: Keywords, Reminder Text, Reveal, Threat
HIT POINTS
Each character (identity, ally, minion, and villain) has a
hit point value. Hit points represent the durability of that
character.
When damage is dealt to a character, it reduces the
character's remaining hit points (the amount of damage that
character can take before reaching zero hit points).
An identity's or villain's hit point dial represents
their remaining hit points. If an identity or villain
is damaged, apply the damage by reducing that
If a player's hit point dial is reduced to zero, that
player is defeated and eliminated from the game.
If a villain's hit point dial is reduced to zero, that stage
of the villain is defeated.
If an ally or minion is damaged, track the damage by
placing damage tokens on that character. Damage
tokens on an ally or minion reduce that character's
remaining hit points by the total value of the tokens.
An ally or minion with zero or fewer remaining hit
points is defeated and placed in the appropriate
discard pile.
Some characters may have an infinite number of hit points.
A character with infinite hit points cannot be defeated by
taking damage, as the amount of damage that character
takes will never cause its remaining hit points to reach zero.
However, damage may still be dealt to a character with
infinite hit points through attacks and card abilities.
See also: Ally, Damage, Defeat, Gets, Heal, Identity,
Maximum Hit Points, Minion, Player Elimination, Remaining
Hit Points, Sustained Damage, Villain, Villain Defeat
If a card refers to a hero or alter-ego by title, it refers
only to the identity with that title, and not to the
other side of the card.
Identity cards cannot be discarded from play.
The faceup side of an identity card is considered to
be in play. The facedown side of an identity card is
considered to be out of play.
See also: Form, In Play and Out of Play, Player, Player Card
IDENTITY-SPECIFIC CARD
Cards in the "identity-specific" classification (also
sometimes called "hero-specific") are cards that belong to
an identity's set of accompanying cards.
A player's deck must include each identity-specific
card associated with their chosen identity card. The
exact quantity of each card in that identity-specific set
must be included in the deck.
Identity-specific cards (along with obligation cards
and nemesis encounter set cards) may only be used
alongside an identity if those cards share a set icon
with that identity.
An identity-specific card is designated by the
identity's name with which it is associated printed
at the bottom of the card in its deckbuilding
classification area.
See also: Aspect Card, Basic Card, Classifications, Identity,
Nemesis Encounter Set, Appendix I: Deck Customization
IN PLAY AND OUT OF PLAY
A card is considered to either be in play or out of play
depending on its state within the game.
If a card is in play, its text is active and it can affect the
game.
For player cards, the faceup side of a player's identity
card is in play. The faceup ally cards, support cards,
and upgrade cards that have entered play (played,
put into play, etc.) are in play.
For encounter cards, the faceup side of the top card
of the villain deck and the faceup side of the top
card of the main scheme deck are in play. The faceup
attachment cards, environment cards, minion cards,
obligation cards, and side scheme cards that have
entered play (revealed, put into play, etc.) are in play.
A card enters play when it moves from an out-of-play
area to a play area.
Card abilities only interact with, and can only
target, cards that are in play (unless the ability text
specifically refers to an out-of-play area).
Card abilities on all card types, except event
cards and treachery cards, can only be initiated or
affect the game while they are in play unless they
specifically refer to being used from an out-of-play
area.
character's hit point dial by the specified amount.
If a card is double-sided (having game text on each
side of the card), the faceup side of the card is in play.
If a card is out of play, its text is inactive and cannot affect
the game.
Event cards and treachery cards implicitly resolve
from an out-of-play area, by virtue of the rules
pertaining to those card types.
Cards in a player's hand, deck, and discard pile are
out of play.
Cards in the encounter deck, encounter discard pile,
unrevealed cards in the villain deck, unrevealed cards
in the main scheme deck, and facedown encounter
cards dealt to a player are out of play.
Any cards that have been removed from the game or
that have been set aside are out of play.
A card leaves play when it moves from a play area to
an out-of-play area.
If a card is double-sided (having game text on each
side of the card), the facedown side is out of play.
See also: Ability, Enters Play, Leaves Play, Play, Play
Restrictions and Permissions, Put Into Play, Set Aside,
Target, Victory Display
IN PLAYER ORDER
If players are instructed to perform a sequence "in player
order," the first player performs their part of the sequence
first, followed by the other players in clockwise order.
If a sequence performed in player order does not
conclude after each player has performed their part
of the sequence once, the sequence of opportunities
continues in a clockwise manner until it is complete.
The phrase "next player" always refers to the next
(clockwise) player in player order.
See also: First Player, Player, Player Phase, Player Turn
INCITE X
When a card with the incite X keyword is revealed, place X
threat on the main scheme. (X is the value next to the incite
keyword.)
See also: Keywords, Main Scheme, Reminder Text, Reveal,
INDIRECT DAMAGE
Some card abilities may deal "indirect damage.'
Indirect damage dealt to a player can be divided as
that player chooses among characters under their
control.
Indirect damage dealt to a group of players (or
among players) can be divided as the group chooses
among friendly characters in play.
While assigning indirect damage, a character cannot
be assigned more indirect damage than would cause
it to be defeated. This is assessed without accounting
for interactions with other abilities.
If an enemy's attack deals indirect damage, the
indirect damage is dealt during step four of the
enemy activation (after player's have the opportunity
to defend against the attack).
For example, if you take 5 indirect damage, but you control
an ally with 4 hit points remaining, you may assign 4 of
that indirect damage to the ally, then assign the remaining
1 indirect damage to your identity.
See also: Ally, Attack (Enemy Activation), Damage, Defeat,
INFINITE HIT POINTS
See: Hit Points
INITIATING ABILITIES
When a player wishes to play a card or initiate a triggered
ability, that player first declares their intent. Then, the player
checks the following conditions in order:
Check play restrictions: can the card be played, or the
ability initiated, at this time? (This includes verifying
that the resolution of the effect could change the
game.)
2. Determine the cost (or costs) to play the card or initiate
the ability, taking modifiers into account.
If both conditions are met, follow these steps in order:
Apply any modifiers to the cost(s).
Pay the cost(s). If this step is reached and the cost(s)
cannot be paid, abort this process without paying any
costs.
Make all "choose" decisions required to resolve the
card.
6. The card commences being played, or the effects of
the ability attempt to initiate.
The card is played or the ability (if not canceled in step
six) resolves. The card enters play or, if it is an event
card, its effects resolve and it is then placed in its
owner's discard pile.
If any of the above steps would make the triggering
condition of an interrupt ability true, that ability may
be initiated just before that triggering condition
becomes true.
If any of the above steps would make the triggering
condition of a response ability true, that ability
may be initiated immediately after that triggering
condition becomes true.
If the ability being initiated is on a card that is in play,
the sequence does not stop from completing if that
card leaves play during this sequence unless the card
leaving play prevents a required cost from being
paid.
See also: Ability, Cost, Play Restrictions and Permissions
"INSTEAD"
See: Replacement Effect
Player
1.
3.
4.
5.
7.
Threat
INTERRUPT
An interrupt ability is a type of triggered ability, indicated
by the bold "Interrupt" timing trigger. Interrupt abilities
may be executed anytime the specified triggering condition
occurs, as described in the interrupt's ability text. The
interrupt ability interrupts the resolution of the specified
triggering condition, and resolves immediately before that
triggering condition resolves.
Multiple interrupts may be triggered by the same
triggering condition.
An interrupt ability is executed when its triggering
condition becomes imminent, but before that
triggering condition resolves. Opportunities to
interrupt occur in player order until all players have
passed consecutively.
Once all players have consecutively passed on the
opportunity to interrupt an imminent triggering
condition, further interrupts to that specific triggering
condition cannot be used.
If an interrupt changes (via a replacement effect) or
cancels an imminent triggering condition, further
interrupts to the original triggering condition cannot
be triggered.
See also: Cancel, Replacement Effects, Triggered Ability
KEYWORDS
A keyword is an attribute that conveys specific rules to its
card. The following keywords are used in the game:
Guard: While a minion with guard is engaged with
a player, that player cannot attack the villain. (See:
Guard)
Hinder X: When a player reveals a card with hinder X,
that player places X threat on that card. (See: Hinder
X)
Incite X: When a player reveals a card with incite X,
that player places X threat on the main scheme. (See:
Incite X)
Overkill: Excess damage from attacks with overkill
are dealt to the identity or villain. (See: Overkill)
Patrol: While a minion with patrol is engaged with a
player, that player cannot thwart the main scheme.
(See: Patrol)
Peril: While a player is resolving a card with peril,
other players cannot help that player. (See: Peril)
Permanent: Cards with permanent cannot leave play.
(See: Permanent)
Piercing: Attacks with piercing discard tough status
cards from the target before damage is dealt. (See:
Piercing)
Quickstrike: After this enemy engages a player, it
immediately attacks that player if they are in hero
form. (See: Quickstrike)
Ranged: Attacks with ranged ignore retaliate. (See:
Ranged)
Restricted: A player cannot control more than two
restricted cards at a given time. (See: Restricted)
Retaliate X: After a character with retaliate X is
attacked, deal X damage to the attacker. (See:
Retaliate X)
Setup: Cards with setup start the game in play. (See:
Setup)
Stalwart: Characters with Stalwart cannot be stunned
or confused. (See: Stalwart)
Surge: After a player reveals a card with surge, that
player reveals an additional encounter card. (See:
Surge)
Team-Up: Cards with team-up cannot be played
unless both characters listed by the keyword are in
play. (See: Team-Up)
Toughness: When a character with toughness enters
play, place a tough status card on it. (See: Tough/
Toughness)
Uses (X "type"): When a card with uses enters
play, place X all-purpose counters from the token
pool on that card. After the last all-purpose counter
is removed from a card with uses (and the effect
resolves), discard that card. (See: Uses (X "type"))
Victory X: When a card with victory X is defeated,
add it to the victory display. (See: Victory X)
Villainous: When a minion with villainous activates,
give it a boost card. (See: Villainous)
LASTING EFFECTS
Some card abilities create effects or conditions that affect
the game for a specified duration (such as "until the end of
the phase" or "until the end of this attack"). Such effects are
known as lasting effects.
For the specified duration of a lasting effect, treat the effect
as if it was a constant ability.
A lasting effect persists beyond the resolution of the
ability that created it, for the duration specified by
the effect. The effect continues to affect the game for
the specified duration whether or not the card that
created the lasting effect is in play.
If a card enters play (or changes status to meet the
criteria of a specified set of affected cards) after the
creation of a lasting effect, it is still affected by that
lasting effect.
A lasting effect expires as soon as the timing point
specified by its duration is reached. This means that
an "until the end of the round" lasting effect expires
just before an "at the end of the round" ability or
delayed effect may initiate.
A lasting effect that expires at the end of a specified
time period can only be initiated during that time
period.
See also: Ability, Enters Play
LEAVES PLAY
The phrase "leaves play" refers to any time when a card
transitions from an in-play area to an out-of-play area.
Defeating a character, discarding a card from play, placing
a card in the victory display, or removing a card from the
game are all different means by which a card can leave play.
When a card leaves play, there is no memory of its
previous state and it is considered to be a new copy
of the card.
See also: Defeat, Discard, Discard Pile, Enters Play, In Play
and Out of Play, Remove from the Game, Victory Display
LIMIT
"Limit X per [period]" is a limit that appears on some player
cards. These limits are card-specific. Each copy of an ability
with such a limit may be used X times per the specified
period, per instance of that ability.
If an effect with a limit is canceled, the card is
still considered to have been played or the ability
initiated, and it counts toward the limit.
See also: Player Card
LOOK, LOOKED-AT
If an ability instructs a player to look at cards that are
otherwise hidden from the players, only the player who is
resolving the ability can look at those cards. However, that
player is permitted to convey any amount of information
related to those cards to other players.
MAIN SCHEME, MAIN SCHEME DECK
Main scheme is an encounter card type. The main scheme
represents the villain's primary objective.
If the amount of threat on a main scheme is equal to or
greater than its target threat value, the main scheme
deck advances. Remove that scheme from the game, and
advance to the next stage of the main scheme deck.
If the villain completes the final stage of the main
scheme deck, the villain wins the game.
During step one of the villain phase, place the amount
of threat indicated in the main scheme's acceleration
field (bottom-right corner) on that scheme. This value
is modified by all active acceleration tokens and icons.
When the main scheme deck advances, excess threat
from the previous stage does not carry over to the
new stage.
When the main scheme deck advances, acceleration
tokens on it carry over to the new stage.
Main scheme cards cannot be discarded from play.
See also: Acceleration, Acceleration Token, Card Types,
Encounter Card, Remove from the Game, Target Threat,
Threat, Villain, Villain Phase
MAX
"Max X per [period]" imposes a maximum across all copies
of a card (by title) for all players. Generally, this phrase
imposes a maximum number of times that copies of that
card can be played during the designated time period.
If a maximum appears as part of an ability, it imposes a
maximum number of times that the ability can be initiated
from all copies (by title) of cards bearing that ability
(including itself) during the designated period.
If an effect with a maximum is canceled, the card is
"Max X per deck" is restricts the number of copies of that
card that may be included in each player deck.
"Max 1 per player" is player specific, and restricts the
number of copies of that card that each player may control
A character's maximum hit points is their base hit points
plus or minus all "gets" hit point modifiers that are active on
that character.
See also: Ally, Base Value, Gets, Hit Points, Identity, Minion,
MAY
The word "may" indicates that a specified player has
the option to resolve the text that follows. If no player is
specified, the option is granted to the controller of the card
A mental resource () is one of the four types of resources.
Mental resources can be spent to pay the resource
Some card abilities specifically require mental
resources to be spent in order to resolve their effects.
See also: Ability, Cost, Energy Resource, Icons, Physical
MINION
Minion is an encounter card type. Minions represent
supporters of the villain and/or enemies of the heroes.
If a minion enters play, it engages the player who is
revealing the card from the encounter deck or resolving
the ability that put the minion into play, unless an ability
If a minion enters play, it remains in play until a card
ability or game effect causes it to leave play.
If a minion has zero or fewer remaining hit points, it is
still counted toward the maximum.
in play at a given time.
See also: Appendix I: Deck Customization
MAXIMUM HIT POINTS
Modifiers, Villain
with the ability in question.
See also: Player
MENTAL RESOURCE (i)
cost of cards and abilities.
Resource, Resource, Wild Resource
specifies otherwise.
defeated and discarded.
Minions engaged with a player activate (one minion
at a time and in an order of the engaged player's
choosing) during step two of the villain phase, after
the villain activates. If the engaged player is in hero
form, these minions attack. If the engaged player is in
alter-ego form, these minions scheme.
If a minion engages a player during an enemy
activation in which all minions engaged with that
player are instructed to activate (such as through a
"Boost" ability during step two of the villain phase),
the newly-engaged minion will also activate.
See also: Card Types, Encounter Card, Engage, Enters Play,
Form, Hit Points, Identity, Leaves Play, Player, Player's Play
Area, Villain, Villain Phase
MODES OF PLAY
Before starting a game of Marvel Champions, players can
customize their experience by choosing from or combining
different modes of play. The modes of play are:
Standard Mode - Standard Mode is the basic mode of
play for all scenarios.
To play in Standard Mode, follow the content and
setup instructions for the chosen scenario.
Expert Mode - Expert Mode is a modification of standard
mode for advanced players who seek a greater challenge.
To play a standard game modified by expert mode,
follow the content and setup instructions for the
chosen scenario, using the listed expert mode
villain stages, and add the Expert encounter set to
encounter deck.
Expert mode can also be combined with heroic
mode, skirmish mode, and/or campaign mode.
Heroic Mode - Heroic mode is a modification of standard
mode that allows players to scale the difficulty of the game.
To play a standard game modified by heroic mode,
before the game begins, the player group chooses a
heroic level number (such as heroic level 1 or 4). Then,
for the remainder of that game, during step three of
each villain phase, deal X additional encounter cards
to each player, where X is equal to the chosen heroic
level number.
Heroic mode can also be combined with expert
mode, skirmish mode, and/or campaign mode.
Skirmish Mode - Skirmish mode (also sometimes called
Rookie Mode) is a modification of standard mode that
allows players to shorten the length of the game.
To play a standard game modified by skirmish mode,
before the game begins, the player group chooses
any one version of the villain. During step eight of
game setup (Select Villain), put only the chosen
version of the villain into play and remove each other
version in the villain deck from the game.
Skirmish mode can also be combined with expert
mode, heroic mode, and/or campaign mode.
Campaign Mode - Campaign mode allows players to
modify standard mode through interconnected scenarios
that are played one after another. No two campaigns
are exactly alike, and the rules for each are found in the
campaign's associated rulebook.
Expert campaign mode is a modification of campaign
mode for advanced players who seek a greater
challenge. The rules for each expert campaign mode
are found in the campaign's associated rulebook.
Each campaign comes with its own campaign log.
The campaign log is a record of what effects or cards
persist between games in a campaign.
If a card is removed from a campaign, that card can
no longer be used during the rest of the campaign,
even if players retry the scenario wherein that card
was removed.
During campaign mode or expert campaign mode,
players can choose which other mode(s) they wish to
play for each individual scenario. The difficulty of the
campaign mode does not require players to play any
other specific game mode.
Campaign mode (and expert campaign mode) can
also be combined with expert mode, heroic mode,
and/or skirmish mode.
See also: Campaign-Specific Card, Expert Set, Standard
Set
MODIFIERS
The game constantly checks and (if necessary) updates the
count of any variable quantity that is being modified.
Any time a new modifier is applied or removed, the entire
quantity is recalculated from the start, considering the
unmodified base value and all active modifiers.
The calculation of a value treats all modifiers as being
applied simultaneously. However, while performing
the calculation, all additive and subtractive modifiers
are calculated before doubling and/or halving
modifiers are calculated.
If a value is "set" to a specific number, the set
modifier overrides all non-set modifiers. If multiple
set modifiers are in conflict, the most recently
resolved set modifier takes precedence.
After all active modifiers have been taken into
account, if a value is below zero, it is treated as zero:
a card cannot have "negative" icons, attributes, traits,
cost, or keywords.
Fractional values are rounded up after all modifiers
have been applied.
See also: Base Value, Printed
MODULAR ENCOUNTER SET
Cards belonging to a "modular encounter set" (or
sometimes "modular set") are a classification of encounter
card that can be added to and/or removed from nearly
any scenario.
During game setup, many scenarios will instruct the
players on how many modular encounter sets must be
included in that scenario. Depending on the scenario,
some modular encounter sets are required, while
others can be chosen by the players.
If a modular encounter set is added to a scenario, it
is done so as an entire set. Unless specific scenario
rules state otherwise, individual cards from a modular
encounter set cannot be included in a scenario
without the rest of that set.
A modular encounter set card is designated by
the modular encounter set's name with which it is
associated printed at the bottom of the card in its
encounter set name area.
See also: Classifications, Appendix I: Deck Customization
MOVE
Some abilities allow players to move game elements, such
as cards, damage, or threat.
When an element moves, it cannot move to its same
(current) placement.
If there is no valid source or destination for a move,
the move cannot be made.
It is possible for damage to move between dials and
cards (and vice versa).
If damage is moved from a dial to a card, increase the
hit points tracked by the dial by the specified amount
(no higher than the card's maximum hit points), and
place the same amount of damage on the card.
If damage is moved from a card to a dial, remove
damage from the card and reduce the dial by the
same amount.
If damage is moved to a character, the moved
damage is considered to be dealt to that character.
If threat is moved to a scheme, the moved threat is
considered to be placed to that scheme.
NEMESIS ENCOUNTER SET
Each identity in the game comes with an associated nemesis
encounter set. At the start of the game, each player sets
aside the cards from their associated nemesis set, out of
play. Cards drawn from the encounter deck may instruct the
player on how to bring their nemesis set into play.
A nemesis encounter set is a subset of an identity-
specific set.
A nemesis set cards may only be used alongside
an identity if those cards share a set icon with that
identity.
See also: Identity, Identity-Specific Card, In Play and Out of
Play, Player
OVERKILL
If an ally is dealt any amount of excess damage by an attack
with the overkill keyword, simultaneously deal damage
NON-NUMERICAL - VARIABLE
If a non-numerical variable (such as a letter or other symbol)
is used in place of a numerical value, treat that variable
as being equal to 0 for the purpose of game steps, game
functions, and card abilities.
If a non-numerical variable is defined to have a numerical
value (such as a card ability assigning a value to "X'), treat
that variable as the defined value.
For costs involving the letter X, the value of X is
defined by card ability or player choice, after which
the amount paid may be modified by effects without
changing the value of X.
See also: Base Value, Dash, Printed, Star Icon
OBLIGATION
Obligation is an encounter card type that represents a
commitment or obstacle that an identities alter-ego might
have to face or overcome.
Each identity is associated with one or more
obligation cards. If an identity is being played, all
of that identity's associated obligation cards are
shuffled into the encounter deck during setup.
Identity-specific obligation cards are part of their
associated identity's identity-specific set.
Identity-specific obligation cards can only be used
alongside an identity if those cards share a set icon
with that identity.
If an obligation card is revealed from the encounter deck
and that obligation instructs that it must be given to a
specific player (such as "Give to the Peter Parker player")
place that obligation into the player's play area who controls
the associated identity. That player must decide how to
resolve the obligation.
If the identity associated with a revealed obligation
card has been eliminated, ignore the card's ability,
remove it from the game, and reveal an additional
encounter card.
If a player reveals an obligation card from the encounter
deck and that obligation does not instruct that it must be
given to a specific player, the player places that obligation
into their play area. That player must decide how to resolve
the obligation.
Only the player with the obligation in their play-area
can trigger abilities or pay costs on that obligation.
See also: Card Types, Encounter Card, Encounter Deck,
Enters Play, Form, Identity, Leaves Play, Player, Player
Elimination, Remove from the Game
PATROL
While a minion with the patrol keyword is engaged with a
player, that player cannot use cards they control to thwart
the main scheme.
See also: Engage, Keywords, Main Scheme, Minion,
Reminder Text, Thwart
PER PLAYER ICON (2)
The
icon next to a value multiplies that value by the
number of players who started the scenario.
If a player is eliminated, this value does not change.
See also: Icons, Player Elimination
PERIL
While a player is resolving a card with the peril keyword,
that player cannot consult other players, and other players
cannot play cards or trigger abilities.
See also: Ability, Keywords, Player, Reminder Text, Table
Talk, Triggered Ability
PERMANENT
A card with the permanent keyword cannot leave play.
If a player is eliminated from the game while a
permanent card they do not own is in their play area,
place that permanent card in its owner's discard pile.
See also: In Play and Out of Play, Keywords, Leave Play,
Ownership and Control, Reminder Text
PIERCING
An attack with the piercing keyword discards any tough
status cards from the target of the attack before dealing
damage.
See also: Attack (Enemy Activation), Attack (Player Action),
Damage, Keywords, Reminder Text, Status Cards, Target,
Tough
PHYSICAL RESOURCE (C)
A physical resource (I) is one of the four types of resources.
Physical resources can be spent to pay the resource
cost of cards and abilities.
Some card abilities specifically require physical
resources to be spent in order to resolve their effects.
See also: Ability, Cost, Energy Resource, Icons, Mental
Resource, Resource, Wild Resource
PLAY, PUT INTO PLAY
Playing a card involves paying the card's cost and placing
the card in the play area. This causes the card to enter play
(or, in the case of an event card, to resolve its ability and be
placed in the discard pile). Cards are played from a player's
hand.
PLAYER
A player is a person who is playing in a game of Marvel
Champions.
Each player in the game has their own personal play
area containing their identity card, their identity's hit
point dial, their hand of cards, their deck that they draw
from, their discard pile that they place their discarded
cards into, any allies, upgrades, or supports that they
may have in play, and any attachments, minions, or
obligations that they may have in their play area.
During each player phase of each round, each player
takes their own personal turn where they can play
cards, perform actions with cards they control, and
use various abilities.
Each player owns the cards that were contained
within their deck (including their identity card) at the
start of the game.
Some game steps, game functions, or card abilities
may refer to the "first player". The first player is the
player who has the first player token.
See also: Discard, Discard Pile, First Player, Identity, In
Play and Out of Play, Player Deck, Player Elimination, Player
Phase, Player Turn, Player's Play Area
PLAYER CARD
There are six player card types: ally cards, event cards,
identity cards, resource cards, support cards, and upgrade
cards.
Player cards may belong to various classifications, such
as identity-specific player cards or aspect player cards.
Most player cards have a blue card back.
See also: Ally, Classifications, Event, Identity, Resource
Cards, Support, Upgrade, Appendix I: Deck Construction
PLAYER DECK
A player's deck contains the player cards (allies, events,
resources, supports, and upgrades) owned by the player
who started the game with that deck.
The order of cards within a player's deck cannot be
changed unless a player is instructed to do so by a
game step, game function, or card ability.
If a player deck empties, the player shuffles their discard
pile to make a new deck. That player immediately deals
themself one facedown encounter card from the top of the
encounter deck.
If the player's deck empties and reshuffles while the
player was drawing cards, the player continues to draw
cards up to the specified number.
If the player's deck empties while the player was
discarding cards from their deck, no further cards are
discarded from the newly shuffled deck.
See also: Discard, Discard Pile, Draw, Encounter Deck,
Shuffle
equal to the excess amount to the identity of the player who
controls the ally.
If a minion is dealt any amount of excess damage by an
attack with the overkill keyword, simultaneously deal
damage equal to the excess amount to the villain.
Damage dealt by overkill to an identity or villain does
not constitute an attack against that character.
If a card ability counts excess damage dealt, that
ability counts the same value of excess damage that
is calculated when resolving the overkill keyword.
See also: Ally, Attack (Enemy Activation), Attack (Player
Action), Damage, Hit Points, Identity, Keywords, Minion,
Reminder Text, Villain
OWNERSHIP AND CONTROL
A card's owner is the player whose deck contained the card
at the start of the game. The scenario is considered to be
the owner of the encounter deck and each encounter card.
Cards enter play under their owner's control.
Encounter cards are considered to be under the
control of the scenario.
Control of a card remains constant unless an ability
explicitly causes the card to change control.
A player controls the cards in their own out-of-play
areas (such as the hand, the deck, and the discard
pile).
If a card that has changed control leaves play, after
the resolution of the game occurrence that makes it
leave play, the card is physically placed in its owner's
equivalent out-of-play area (hand, deck, or discard
pile, or removed from the game if that player is no
longer in the game). Other card abilities cannot
interact with this secondary physical placement.
If a character changes control while it is in play, it
remains in the same state (i.e., readied or exhausted,
damaged or not, etc.) and is moved to its new
controller's play area.
Upgrades or attachments on a card that changes
control also change control to the same new
controller.
Unless a duration is specified, a control change
persists as long as the card remains in play.
If a game step or card ability references a card that
"you control" or a "player controls," that game step
or card ability only refers to cards in play currently
under that player's control.
See also: Encounter Card, Encounter Deck, In Play and Out
of Play, Player, Player Card, Player Deck, Player's Play Area,
Villain's Play Area
Some abilities cause cards to be put into play. This bypasses
the need to pay the card's cost as well as any restrictions or
prohibitions regarding playing that card. A card that is put
into play enters play in its controller's play area.
When an event card is played, place it on the table,
resolve its ability, and place the card in its owner's
discard pile.
A card that is put into play is not considered to have
been played.
When a card is put into play, its resource cost is
ignored.
Unless otherwise stated by the "put into play" effect,
cards that are put into play must do so in a play area
or state that matches the rules of playing the card.
See also: Enters Play, In Play and Out of Play, Leaves Play,
Play Restrictions and Permissions
PLAY AREA
There are two types of play areas: a player's play area and
the villain's play area.
A player's play area contains that player's identity,
deck, hand, discard pile, any cards in play under
their control, and any faceup or facedown encounter
cards in their play area (such as engaged minions or
encounter cards that have been dealt to them).
The villain's play area contains the villain deck, main
scheme deck, encounter deck, encounter discard
pile, and any encounter cards in play that have not
entered a player's play area (such as side schemes or
environments).
A card cannot be in more than one play area at a
time.
See also: In Play and Out of Play, Player's Play Area, Villain's
Play Area
PLAY RESTRICTIONS AND
PERMISSIONS
Many cards and abilities contain specific instructions
pertaining to when or how they may or may not be used,
or to specific conditions that must be true in order to use
them.
In order to use an ability or play a card, all of its play
restrictions must be observed.
A permission is an optional play restriction, which
allows a player to play a card or use an ability outside
the timing or specifications provided by the game
rules. For example, a permission might allow an ally
card to be played from a player's discard pile.
See also: Ability, Play, Player
PLAYER DISCARD PILE
See: Discard Pile
PLAYER ELIMINATION
A player is eliminated from the game if their identity
is defeated. This usually occurs when the character's
remaining hit points are reduced to zero.
When a player is eliminated, perform the following in order:
1. If there are minions engaged with the eliminated player,
each of those minions engages the next clockwise
player, retaining any attachments, damage, counters,
and status cards on them.
2. If there are cards in the eliminated player's play area
that are not owned by that player, place each of those
cards in its owner's discard pile (even if that card has the
permanent keyword).
3. Remove the eliminated player's play area and each other
game element within (hand, deck, discard pile, cards in
play, hit point dial, etc.) from the game.
When a player is eliminated, the remaining players continue
to play the game. Eliminated players are considered to win
or lose along with the rest of the group, depending on how
they finish.
If all players are eliminated, the game ends and the
players lose.
If a player is eliminated partway through the resolution of an
ability, resolve the entire ability.
See also: Ability, Deal, Engage, Hit Points, Identity, Minion,
Player, Player Cards, Player Deck, Player's Play Area,
Winning the Game
PLAYER PHASE
During the player phase, each player (in player order) takes
one turn.
After each player has taken a turn, the players discard
down or draw up to their hand size and ready all cards they
control.
See also: End of Player Phase, In Player Order, Player,
Player Turn
PLAYER TURN
During their turn, a player may perform the following
options, in any order. Each option, except "change form,"
may be performed as many times as the player is able, so
long as they are able to pay the required costs.
Change form from hero to alter-ego, or from alter-
ego to hero. This option may only be performed
once each turn.
Play an ally, upgrade, or support card from hand.
Use their alter-ego's basic recovery (if in alter-ego
form) or their hero's basic attack or thwart power (if in
hero form).
Use an ally card they control in play to attack an
enemy or thwart a scheme.
Trigger an "Action" card ability on a card in play they
control, on an encounter card in play, or by playing
an event card with such a timing trigger from their
hand. If the action ability is preceded by "Hero" or
"Alter-Ego", the player must be in the specified form
in order to trigger the ability.
Ask another player to trigger an "Action" ability on
a card in play they control or on an event card they
might have in hand. The other player then decides
whether or not to trigger the ability. (Another player
may offer to use an action during the active player's
turn, as well.)
See also: Ally, Basic Power, Encounter Card, Event, Form,
Ownership and Control, Play, Player, Player Phase, Support,
Triggered Ability, Upgrade
PLAYER'S PLAY AREA
A player's play area (also sometimes referred to as a
"player's game area") is the area of play where a player's
identity card, deck, hand, discard pile, and hit point dial are
located. Each player in the game has their own play area.
Ally cards, support cards, and upgrade cards are
placed in a player's play area when they enter play.
Attachment cards attached to cards in the villain's
play area are not in the player's play area.
Minion cards engaged with a player are in that
player's play area and not in the villain's play area.
Obligation cards given to a play are in that player's
play area and not in the villain's play area.
While card abilities can affect cards across play areas,
unless a game rule or card ability states otherwise,
cards cannot be played into another player's play
area.
If a player is eliminated from the game (through their
identity being defeated, or otherwise), their play area
is removed from the game.
See also: Ally, Discard Pile, Identity, In Play and Out of
Play, Minion, Obligation, Player Deck, Player Elimination,
Support, Upgrade
PLAYING CARDS
See: Initiating Abilities
RULES REFERENCE
PREVENT
Some card abilities prevent damage or threat.
When damage is prevented, reduce the amount of
damage being dealt before it is applied to the target.
When threat is prevented, reduce the amount of
threat being assigned before it is placed on the
scheme.
See also: Ability, Damage, Scheme (Card Type), Target,
Threat
PRINTED
The word "printed" refers to the text, characteristic, or value
that is physically printed on the card.
See also: Base Value, Modifiers
QUALIFIERS
If ability text includes a qualifier followed by multiple terms,
the qualifier applies to each item in the list, if applicable.
For example, in the phrase "each ready character and
attachment" the word "ready" applies to both "character"
and "attachment."
QUICKSTRIKE
After a minion with the quickstrike keyword engages a
player whose identity is in hero form, that minion attacks
that player.
See also: Attack (Enemy Activation), Engage, Form,
Keywords, Minion, Player, Reminder Text
RANGED
An attack with the ranged keyword ignores the retaliate
keyword.
See also: Attack (Enemy Activation), Attack (Player Action),
Keywords, Reminder Text, Retaliate X
READY
Cards enter play in a ready state, positioned so that their
controller can read their text from left to right.
If a player is instructed to ready an exhausted card,
the card is returned to its ready state.
See also: Enters Play, Exhausted
REC
See: Basic Power, Recover
RECOVER
Recover is a basic power a player can use in alter-ego form.
To recover, the player exhausts their alter-ego and heals a
number of hit points equal to their REC value.
See also: Basic Power, Form, Heal, Hit Points, Identity
REFERENTIAL ABILITY
Some abilities refer to specific cards by name. These are
called referential abilities.
If an ability references the name of the card that
the ability is on, that ability is self-referential. A
self-referential ability refers only to the card on which
it is located and not to other copies of that card or
different cards with the same title.
If an ability on an identity-specific card references
the name of the identity to which it belongs, it is
referencing only that identity and not other cards that
may share a name with that identity.
If a non-self-referential, non-identity-specific card
references a card and there are multiple cards in
play with that name, the player resolving that ability
may choose which card with that name becomes the
target of that ability.
See also: Ability, Character, Classifications, Identity,
Identity-Specific Card
REMAINING HIT POINTS
A character's remaining hit points is the amount of damage
that character can take before reaching zero hit points.
An identity's or villain's hit point dial represents their
remaining hit points.
To calculate remaining hit points for an ally or minion,
start with the character's maximum hit points (as
indicated by its printed value modified by any card
abilities or game effects), and subtract their sustained
damage (the number of damage counters on them).
See also: Hit Points, Hit Point Dial, Identity, Sustained
Damage, Villain
REMINDER TEXT
Some card abilities may include reminder text. Reminder
text is italicized and in parentheses (like this). Reminder text
has no effect on the game and is only intended to remind a
player of a specific game function or rule.
REMOVED FROM THE GAME
A card that has been removed from the game is set aside
and does not interact with the game in any manner for the
duration of its removal. If there is no specified duration, a
card that has been removed from the game is considered
removed until the end of the game.
"Removed from the game" is an out-of-play state.
See also: In Play and Out of Play, Leaves Play
REPLACEMENT EFFECT
A replacement effect is an effect that replaces the handling
of one resolution with a different means of handling that
resolution. Most replacement effects are interrupt abilities
in the format of "when [triggering condition] would happen,
do [replacement effect] instead." After all responses to the
original triggering condition have resolved and it is time
to resolve the triggering condition itself, the replacement
effect resolves instead.
If multiple replacement effects are initiated against
the same triggering condition, the most recent
replacement effect is the one that is used for the
resolution of the triggering condition.
See also: Ability, Alteration Effect, Triggered Ability
RESOURCE
Resources are used to pay the cost to play cards and to pay
certain ability costs.
A player can generate resources to pay a cost by
discarding cards from their hand to generate the
resource or resources indicated at the bottom-left
corner of the card, or by using card abilities that
generate resources.
There are four types of resources in the game:
energy, mental, and physical, and wild. Wild resources
can be used as their type or any of the other types.
To pay the cost of playing a card, a number of
resources equal to (or greater than) the card's cost
must be generated. For most cards, any type (or mix
of types) of resources can be used to pay this cost.
If an ability has a resource cost, a number of
resources equal to or greater than this cost must be
generated. Many abilities require specific resource
types, and the specified types in the specified
quantities must be generated in order to pay the cost
of the ability.
Excess resources generated toward any cost are lost,
and do not carry over to future costs.
See also: Cost, Energy Resource, Icons, Mental Resource,
Physical Resource, Wild Resource
RESOURCE ABILITY
A resource ability is a type of triggered ability, indicated by
the bold "Resource" timing trigger.
A resource ability can be triggered anytime the player
who controls the ability is generating resources to
pay a cost.
See also: Cost, Resource, Triggered Ability
RESOURCE CARDS
Resource cards are a player card type. Their primary
function is to be discarded from a player's hand to generate
resources.
REVEAL
During step four of the villain phase, each player (in player
order) reveals and resolves all facedown encounter cards
that have been dealt to them, one card at a time.
To reveal an encounter card, a player flips the card faceup
and resolves the card, including any keywords and "When
Revealed" effects. Resolve revealed encounter cards based
on their card type, as follows. If the revealed card is:
an attachment, it enters play attached to the element
specified by its text.
a minion, it enters play engaged with the player
revealing the card.
a treachery, its effects resolve and it is discarded.
an environment, it enters play next to the villain.
a side scheme, it enters play next to the main scheme.
an obligation, it is given to the player specified by
the card, and that player resolves its text.
If a player is instructed by card text to reveal an encounter
card from the encounter deck or any other game area, this
same resolution procedure applies.
See also: Attachment, Deal, Encounter Card, Enters Play,
Environment, In Player Order, Minion, Obligation, Player,
Side Scheme, Treachery, Villain Phase
ROOKIE MODE
See: Modes of Play
ROUND STRUCTURE
See: Overview - Round Overview, End of the Player Phase,
Player Phase, Player Turn, Villain Phase
These cards generally provide more (or more efficient)
resources than other card types when they are discarded
from a player's hand to generate resources.
Some resource cards have card text that is active
while using the card to generate resources.
Resource cards are considered to be an extension of an
identity. If a player spends a resource, that resource is
also considered to be spent by that player's identity.
See also: Card Types, Energy Resource, Enters Play, Icons,
Identity, Leaves Play, Mental Resource, Physical Resource,
Player, Player Card, Resource, Wild Resource
RESPONSE
A response ability is a type of triggered ability, indicated by
the bold "Response" timing trigger. Response abilities may
be executed after the specified triggering condition occurs,
as described in the response's ability text.
Multiple responses may be executed from the same
triggering condition.
A response opportunity occurs immediately
after its triggering condition has been resolved.
Opportunities to respond occur in player order until
all players have passed consecutively.
Once the opportunity to respond to a triggering
condition has been passed consecutively by all
players, further responses to that specific triggering
condition cannot be used.
See also: Ability, Triggered Ability
RESTRICTED
A player cannot have more than two cards with the
restricted keyword in play under their control at the same
time. If a player ever controls more than two restricted cards
in play, they must immediately choose and discard from play
restricted cards they control until they have only two in play.
See also: Choose, Discard, Keywords, Ownership and
Control, Player, Reminder Text
RETALIATE X
After a character with the retaliate X keyword is attacked,
deal X damage to the attacker. (X is the value next to the
retaliate keyword.)
The character with retaliate X must survive the attack
to deal this damage.
See also: Ally, Attack (Enemy Activation), Attack (Player
Action), Damage, Identity, Keywords, Minion, Reminder
Text, Villain
SCH
See: Basic Power, Scheme (Enemy Activation)
SCHEME (CARD TYPE)
The word "scheme" denotes two different card types: main
schemes and side schemes.
If a card ability places threat on or removes threat
from "a scheme," the player resolving that ability
chooses which scheme-main scheme or side
schemes-that ability affects.
See also: Main Scheme, Side Scheme
SCHEME (ENEMY ACTIVATION)
A scheme is a type of enemy activation. If an enemy is
instructed to scheme, follow these steps:
1.
If a villain, or a minion with the villainous keyword, is
scheming, give it one facedown boost card from the
encounter deck. (If a minion without the villainous
keyword is scheming, skip this step.)
2.
Flip each of the scheming enemy's boost cards faceup
one at a time. (If a minion without the villainous
keyword is scheming, skip this step.) Then, in order:
Resolve any "Boost" abilities, indicated by the star
icon in the boost field.
Increase the scheming enemy's SCH value by one for
each boost icon on the card.
Discard each boost card after it is resolved.
3.
Place threat on the main scheme equal to the scheming
enemy's modified SCH value.
See also: Activation, Boost, Minion, Villain, Villain Phase,
Villainous
SEARCH
When a player is instructed to search for a card, the player is
permitted to look at each of the cards in the searched area.
If the player finds a card that satisfies the criteria of the
search, the player adds that card to the game area indicated
If a player finds multiple cards that satisfy the criteria
of a search, the player chooses among those options.
Cards being searched are not considered to leave the
If any portion of a deck is searched, upon completion
of that game step, game function, or card ability,
See also: Encounter Deck, Player Deck, Shuffle
SPECIAL
A special ability is a type of triggered ability, indicated by
the
bold "Special' timing trigger. Special abilities may only
be executed through the explicit instruction of another card
ability.
STALWART
A character that has the stalwart keyword cannot be
If a character gains the stalwart keyword while they
have a stunned and/or confused status card, each
stunned and/or confused status card is removed from
See also: Ally, Confused, Gains, Identity, Keywords, Minion,
The standard set is an encounter set that is added to most
scenarios.
The standard set is not a modular encounter set
and cannot be selected (by the players or randomly)
when a scenario requires players to choose a modular
encounter set to include in that scenario.
Cards in the "Standard" classification are any cards
that have the word "Standard" printed by the bottom
of the card in its encounter set name area.
See also: Classifications, Appendix I: Deck Customization
STAR ICON
that corresponds to that field. In and of itself, the star icon
has no effect; it is merely a reminder to check the card's text
If a star icon is located next to an enemy's ATK or
SCH value, the icon serves as a reminder to check
that enemy's text box whenever that enemy uses that
If a star icon is located in the ATK or SCH field of an
attachment, the icon serves as a reminder to check
that attachment's text box whenever the attached
enemy uses the value that field is modifying to attack
If a star icon is located next to an ally's ATK or THW
value, the icon serves as a reminder to check that
ally's text box whenever that ally uses that value to
RUNNING OUT OF CARDS
See: Encounter Deck, Player Deck
SCENARIO-SPECIFIC CARD
Cards in the "scenario-specific" classification are cards that
belong to a scenario's set of accompanying cards.
A scenario must include each scenario-specific card
associated with that scenario. The exact quantity of
each card in that set is determined by the scenario.
In most scenarios, the scenario-specific cards
are separated into three decks: the villain deck
(comprised of that scenario's villain cards), the main
scheme deck (comprised of that scenario's main
scheme cards), and the encounter deck (comprised of
that scenario's attachment, environment, minion, side
scheme, and treachery cards).
A scenario-specific card is designated by the name of
the scenario with which it is associated printed at the
bottom of the card in its encounter set name area.
See also: Classifications, Main Scheme Deck, Villain Deck,
Appendix I: Deck Customization
SET ASIDE, SET-ASIDE
Some game steps or card abilities instruct players to
set aside specific cards. Set-aside cards are out of play
and have no interaction with the game until they are
referenced by instructions within the scenario or by a card
ability.
See also: Ability, In Play and Out of Play, Appendix II: Setup
SETUP
A card with the setup keyword begins the game in play.
See also: Keywords, Reminder Text, Appendix II: Setup
SHUFFLE
Shuffling is the game function of randomizing the contents
of a deck.
If a player is instructed to shuffle a deck, that deck
must be randomized to the point where no player
within the game can ascertain the order of the cards
within that deck.
Any time a deck is searched by a game step or card
ability, that deck is shuffled after the game step or
card ability completes its resolution.
See also: Encounter Deck, Player Deck, Search
SIDE SCHEME
Side scheme is an encounter card type that represents
additional obstacles and distractions the heroes are
confronted with.
If a side scheme is revealed, it enters play and is placed next
to the main scheme deck in the villain's play area.
Each side scheme enters play with an amount of
threat on it equal to the card's starting threat value
(indicated at the bottom of the card).
A side scheme remains in play until there is no threat
on it (which causes it to be defeated and discarded),
or until a card ability removes it from play. (Threat can
be removed from side schemes by using the thwart
power of heroes and allies, or by using card abilities.)
See also: Card Types, Defeat, Encounter Card, Enters Play,
Leaves Play, Main Scheme Deck, Threat, Thwart, Villain's
Play Area
SIMULTANEOUS RESOLUTION
If two or more effects with the same bold timing trigger
would resolve simultaneously, the first player determines the
order in which the effects resolve.
See also: First Player, Triggered Ability
SKIRMISH MODE
See: Modes of Play
by the instructions on the search effect.
searched area.
shuffle that entire deck.
See also: Triggered Ability
stunned or confused.
that character.
Reminder Text, Status Cards, Stunned, Villain
STANDARD MODE
See: Modes of Play
STANDARD SET
)
A star icon is used in conjunction with a
card's stat or boost field to indicate that
there is a mandatory ability in the text box
box whenever that field is used.
value to attack or scheme.
or scheme.
attack or thwart.
If a star icon is located next to a hero's ATK, THW,
or DEF, or next to an alter-ego's REC value, the icon
serves as a reminder to check that character's text
box whenever they use that value to attack, thwart,
defend, or recover.
If a game step or ability references a power with the
value of star (*), that value is treated as 0.
If a star icon is located in an encounter card's boost
field, the icon serves as a reminder to check that
card's text box whenever that card is turned face up
as a boost card during the villain's activation.
See also: Activation, Ally, Attachment, Basic Power, Boost,
Identity, Minion, Non-Numerical Variables, Villain
STATUS CARDS
Status card represent different states a character may find
themselves in during the game.
The following status cards are used in the game. When a
character is given a status card, take a status card of the
specified type from the pool and place it on that character.
A character cannot have more than one status card of
each type at a time.
Status card abilities have timing priority over all
conflicting card abilities.
The three status card types are:
Confused - A confused status card prevents a character
from thwarting or scheming.
If a confused hero or ally attempts to thwart or use
a thwart ability, discard the confused card instead.
Costs associated with the thwart attempt, including
exhausting the character, must still be paid.
If a confused villain or minion would scheme, discard
the confused status card instead.
As the thwart action or scheme activation was
replaced by the removal of the confused status card,
that character is not considered to have thwarted or
schemed.
Stunned - A stunned status card prevents a character
from attacking.
If a stunned hero or ally attempts to attack or use
an attack ability, discard the stunned card instead.
Costs associated with the attack attempt, including
exhausting the character, must still be paid.
If a stunned villain or minion would attack, discard the
stunned status card instead.
As the attack action or attack activation was replaced
by the removal of the stunned status card, that
character is not considered to have attacked.
Tough - A tough status card prevents a character from
taking damage.
If a character with a tough status card would take any
amount of damage, prevent all of that damage and
discard the tough status card instead.
As a tough status card prevents damage fully, the
character who had the tough status card is not
considered to have taken damage.
See also: Ally, Attack (Enemy Activation), Attack (Player
Action), Basic Power, Confused, Damage, Form, Identity,
Minion, Replacement Effect, Stunned, Villain
STUN, STUNNED
Stun is a status that prevents a character from dealing
damage with its next attack.
If an ability "stuns" a character, give that character a
stunned status card.
If a character has an ability stating that it "cannot be
stunned," stunned status cards cannot be placed on
that character.
See also: Ally, Identity, Minion, Status Cards, Villain
SUBTITLE
Some ally cards have a subtitle beneath the title. A subtitle
represents an alternate alias a character sometimes uses.
See also: Unique
SUPPORT
Support is a player card type that represent locations,
backline supporters or friends, and other behind-the-scenes
elements a hero or alter-ego might have at their disposal.
Support cards enter play in the back row of a player's
play area.
A support card is active while it is in play, and it
remains in play until a card ability causes it to leave
play.
Attacks, thwarts, defenses, action abilities, and
triggered abilities that resolve from supports in play
under a player's control are not considered to be
performed by that player's identity.
See also: Card Types, Enters Play, In Play and Out of Play,
Leaves Play, Player Card, Player's Play Area
SURGE
After an encounter card with this keyword is revealed, the
player resolving the card reveals an additional encounter
card from the top of the encounter deck.
Complete the process of resolving the original card
before revealing the additional card.
See also: Encounter Card, Encounter Deck, Keywords,
Reminder Text, Reveal
SUSTAINED DAMAGE
Sustained damage refers to the difference between a
character's maximum hit points and remaining hit points.
To calculate sustained damage for an identity or
villain (using a hit point dial), start with the character's
maximum hit points (as indicated by its printed value
modified by any card abilities or game effects), and
subtract their remaining hit points (as indicated by the
dial).
Sustained damage on an ally or minion is equal to the
total value of all damage tokens on the card.
See also: Ally, Damage, Hit Points, Identity, Maximum Hit
Points, Remaining Hit Points, Villain
TABLE TALK
Players are permitted and encouraged to talk to one
another during play, and to work as a team to plan and
execute the best course of action. Players can discuss
anything they would like, including cards in play and cards
in their hand. Players are not obligated to disclose the cards
in their hand if they do not wish to do so.
While resolving an encounter card with the peril
keyword, players are not permitted to consult with
one another.
See also: Keywords, Peril, Player
TARGET
If a game function or card ability is directed toward a game
element (such as an attack that deals damage to an enemy),
that game element becomes the target of that function
or ability for the duration of that function's or ability's
resolution.
The term "choose" indicates that one or more targets
must be selected in order for an ability to resolve.
See also: Ability, Choose
TARGET THREAT
Target threat is the amount of threat required for the main
scheme deck to advance. It is located in the upper left
corner of the card, before the title.
See also: Main Scheme, Threat
TEAM-UP
The team-up keyword names two characters. In order for a
player to include a card with the team-up keyword in their
deck, that player's chosen identity must match one of the
named characters. Additionally, a card with the team-up
keyword cannot be played unless both of the named
characters (hero or ally) are in play.
See also: Ally, Identity, In Play and Out of Play, Keywords,
Play, Reminder Text, Appendix I: Deck Construction
TEXT BOX
The text box of a card is the area of a card that contains the
card's printed abilities, traits, and flavor text (if any).
If a card ability references a card's "text box," that
ability only references the printed abilities within that
card's text box.
See also: Ability, Printed, Traits, Appendix III: Card
Anatomy
THEN
If the effect text of an ability includes the word "then"
the text preceding the word "then" must be fully true or
resolved before the remainder of the effect described after
If the pre- "then" text of an effect fully resolves,
the post-"then" text of the effect must also
attempt to resolve.
If the pre-"then" text of an effect does not fully
resolve, the bost-"then" text does not attempt to
resolve.
THREAT
of threat on scheme cards.
Scheme, Prevent, Thwart
THW
See: Basic Power, Thwart
THWART
Some game effects and card abilities reference a thwart
attempt. There are a few different ways this can occur:
A hero can use their basic thwart power to thwart a
scheme. A hero must exhaust to use this power. This
removes threat equal to the hero's THW value from
the scheme.
An ally can use its basic thwart power to thwart a
scheme. This removes threat equal to the ally's THW
If a triggered ability is labeled as a thwart-such
as "Hero Action (thwart)"-resolving that ability is
considered to thwart the specified scheme. Unless
specified by the ability's text, a hero does not exhaust
See also: Ally, Basic Power, Consequential Damage,
TOUGH
Tough is a status that prevents a character from taking
damage.
See: Status Cards, Toughness
the word "then" can be resolved.
Threat tokens are used to track the amount
TA
See also: Component Limitations, Scheme
(Enemy Activation), Main Scheme, Side
value from the scheme.
when using such an ability.
Exhausted, Main Scheme, Side Scheme, Threat
TOUGHNESS
When a character with the toughness keyword enters play,
place a tough status card on it.
See also: Ally, Enters Play, Identity, Keywords, Minion,
Reminder Text, Status Cards, Villain
TRAITS
Many cards have one or more traits listed at the top of the
text box and printed in bold italics.
Traits have no inherent effects on the game. Instead,
some card abilities reference cards that possess or
lack specific traits.
Traits are not considered to be part of a card's
printed text box for the purpose of card abilities.
See also: Printed, Appendix III: Card Anatomy
TREACHERY
Treachery is an encounter card type that represent tactics,
tricks, disasters, and other immediate occurrences that
confront players during a scenario.
If a treachery card is revealed from the encounter
deck, the player revealing the card must resolve its
effects.
After resolving the effects of a treachery card (or the
effects are canceled), place the card in the encounter
discard pile.
See also: Card Types, Discard, Encounter Card, Encounter
Deck, Reveal, Villain
TRIGGERED ABILITY
See: Ability, Action, Forced, Interrupt, Resource Ability,
Response, Simultaneous Resolution, Special, When
Defeated Abilities, When Revealed Abilities
TRIGGERING CONDITION
A triggering condition is a specific occurrence that takes
place in the game. On card abilities, the triggering
condition is the element of the ability that references
such an occurrence, indicating the timing point at which
the ability may be used. The description of an ability's
triggering condition usually follows the word "when" or
"after."
If a single game occurrence creates multiple
triggering conditions (such as a single attack causing
a character to both take damage and be defeated),
those triggering conditions are handled with a single
interrupt window and a single response window.
During each of these windows, abilities that refer
to any of the triggering conditions created by the
occurrence may be used in any order.
See also: Interrupt, Response
Unless attached to a different character, upgrade
cards are considered to be an extension of the
controlling player's identity. Attacks, thwarts,
defenses, action abilities, and triggered abilities that
resolve on upgrades in play under a player's control
are also considered to be resolved by that player's
identity.
See also: Attach To, Card Types, Enters Play, Identity, In
Play and Out of Play, Leaves Play, Player Card, Player's
Play Area
USES (X "TYPE")
When a card with this keyword enters play, place X all-
purpose counters from the token pool on the card. The
word following the value establishes and identifies the type
of uses the card holds.
Each card with this keyword also has an ability that
references the type of use established by the keyword as
part of the cost.
After the last all-purpose counter is removed from a card
with uses (and the effect resolves), discard that card.
See also: All-Purpose Counter, Discard, Enters Play,
Keywords, Leaves Play, Reminder Text
VICTORY DISPLAY
The victory display is an out-of-play game area shared by
all players. Cards in the victory display follow the standard
rules for out-of-play cards.
See also: In Play and Out of Play, Player, Victory X
VICTORY X
When a card with the victory X keyword is defeated, place
it in the victory display instead of its owner's discard pile.
While in the victory display, X indicates how many victory
points that card is worth. (X is the value next to the victory
keyword.)
Some scenarios or campaigns may count the number
of victory points in the victory display.
See also: Defeat, Discard Pile, Keywords, Reminder Text,
Victory Display
VILLAIN, VILLAIN DECK
Villain is an encounter card type that represents the primary
enemy the players are attempting to defeat in a scenario.
The villain is represented by a sequential deck of one or
more cards. The players defeat the villain by reducing the
hit points of each stage of the villain deck to zero.
Villain cards cannot be discarded from play.
See also: Activation, Attack (Enemy Activation), Scheme
(Enemy Activation), Villain Defeat
UNDEFENDED
See: Attack (Enemy Activation)
UNIQUE ICON (+)
The players as a group are permitted to have only
one copy of each unique card (by title) in play.
A player cannot include more than one copy of each
unique card (by title) in their deck. The identity card is
included in this evaluation.
In the Marvel setting, it is possible for multiple people to
bear the same title. (For example, more than one person can
bear the title of "Captain America", but there is only one
Steve Rogers.) Because of this, a comparison of alter-egos
and/or subtitles between two cards may create the following
exceptions to the unique rules stated above:
If two identities share the same title, but each has a
If two unique allies share the same title, but each
has a different subtitle, they may coexist in a player's
deck and in play.
If a hero and a unique ally share the same title, but
the alter-ego and the subtitle are different, they may
Additionally, some unique minions may have the same title
as other friendly or enemy characters.
If a unique minion is revealed from the encounter
deck and attempts to enter play while another unique
character with the same title is already in play, the
player who is revealing that minion discards it, then
If a card ability attempts to put a unique minion into
play while another unique character with the same
title is already in play, that minion cannot enter play
and the "put into play" effect fails to resolve. Resolve
See also: Ally, Enters Play, Identity, Minion, Player, Subtitle,
Villain, Appendix I: Deck Customization
UPGRADE
Upgrade is a player card type that represents powers,
attacks, equipment, and other assets that are (in most cases)
at an identity's immediate disposal.
An upgrade is active so long as it is in play, and it
remains in play until a card ability causes it to leave
play.
Most upgrade cards enter play near a player's identity
card, and modify the player's hero or alter-ego (or
both).
Some upgrades enter play and "attach to" another
card. These upgrades modify the card they are
attached to, not the hero or alter-ego of the player
who played the upgrade.
VILLAIN DEFEAT
If the villain's hit point dial is reduced to zero, the players
have defeated that stage of the villain.
Remove the current stage of the villain deck from the game.
The next sequential stage of the villain deck is revealed. Set
If the final stage of the villain deck is defeated, the
players win the game.
Excess damage that is dealt to defeat a villain stage
Attachments, status cards, counters, and non-
damage tokens on a villain carry over to the new
stage.
See also: All-Purpose Counters, Attachment, Damage,
Defeat, Excess Damage, Hit Points, Status Cards, Villain
VILLAIN PHASE
The steps of the villain phase are:
1.
Place the amount of threat indicated in the main
scheme's acceleration field onto that scheme. If any
acceleration icons or tokens are active, additional threat
equal to the number of such icons and tokens is also
placed at this time.
2.
activation, any minions engaged with that player also
activate.
3. Deal one encounter card to each player. Deal one
additional card for each hazard symbol on a card in
play. These additional cards are dealt in player order.
4.
The first player reveals each of their encounter cards,
one card at a time, resolving each card based on its
card type. Each player repeats this process in player
5.
Pass the first player token to the next clockwise player
and end the round.
See also: Acceleration Icon, Activation, Attack (Enemy
Activation), Deal, Engage, First Player, Hazard Icon, In
Player Order, Main Scheme, Minion, Player, Reveal, Scheme
(Enemy Activation), Threat, Villain
A card with a + icon before its title is unique.
different alter-ego, they may coexist in play.
coexist in deckbuilding and in play.
reveals a new card from the encounter deck.
the remainder of the card ability as normal.
the villain's hit point dial as indicated by that stage.
does not carry over to the new stage.
The villain activates once per player. For each
order, until no dealt encounter cards remain.
VILLAIN'S PLAY AREA
The villain's play area (also sometimes referred to as the
"villain's game area") is the area of play where the villain
deck, the main scheme deck, the encounter deck, the
encounter discard pile, and the villain's hit point dial are
located.
Environment cards and side scheme cards are placed
in the villain's play area when they enter play.
Attachments cards attached to cards in the villain's
play area are in the villain's play area. Attachment
cards attached to cards in a player's play area are not
in the villain's play area.
Minion cards engaged with a player are in that
player's play area and not in the villain's play area.
Obligation cards given to a player are in that player's
play area and not in the villain's play area.
See also: Attachment, Discard Pile, Encounter Deck,
Environment, In Play and Out of Play, Main Scheme Deck,
Minion, Obligation, Villain Deck
VILLAINOUS
When a minion with the villainous keyword activates, give it
a facedown boost card from the top of the encounter deck.
When you resolve that minion's activation, turn the boost
card faceup, resolve any boost ability on that card, and
apply its boost icons to the minion's stats for this activation.
Discard the boost card after the activation.
See also: Activation, Attack (Enemy Activation), Boost,
Discard, Keywords, Minion, Reminder Text, Scheme (Enemy
Activation)
WHEN COMPLETED ABILITIES
A when completed ability is a type of triggered ability,
indicated by the bold "When Completed" timing trigger.
When a main scheme is complete, all "When Completed"
abilities on the card resolve.
See also: Main Scheme
WHEN DEFEATED ABILITIES
A when defeated ability is a type of triggered ability,
indicated by the bold 'When Defeated' timing trigger.
When a villain stage, side scheme, main scheme stage, ally,
or minion is defeated, all "When Defeated" abilities on the
card resolve.
See also: Ally, Defeat, Main Scheme, Minion, Side Scheme,
Triggered Ability, Villain
WHEN REVEALED ABILITIES
A when revealed ability is a type of triggered ability,
indicated by the bold "When Revealed" timing trigger.
When a player reveals a card from the encounter deck,
a new scheme stage, or a new villain stage, all "When
Revealed" abilities on the card resolve.
If an encounter card with a "When Revealed' ability
enters play during setup, resolve that ability during
setup step 10.
If an encounter card with a "When Revealed" ability
is put into play without being revealed, the "When
Revealed" ability does not trigger.
See also: Encounter Card, Main Scheme, Triggered Ability,
Villain, Appendix II: Setup
WILD RESOURCE (*)
A wild resource (*) is one of the four types of resources.
Wild resources can be spent to pay the resource cost
of cards and abilities. When a player generates a wild
resource (*), they may specify which resource type
(energy, mental, physical, or wild) it is being used as.
Some card abilities specifically require wild resources
to be spent in order to resolve their effects.
When resources are not being generated for a cost, a
wild resource does not have any characteristic other
than "wild resource." In such contexts, wild resources
cannot be interpreted as any of the other resource
types.
See also: Ability, Cost, Energy Resource, Icons, Mental
Resource, Physical Resource, Resource
WINNING THE GAME
If the players defeat the final villain stage, they win the
game. If the final stage of the main scheme deck is
completed, the villain wins the game.
Some scenarios may have alternate win or loss
conditions. If these conditions are met, the players
win or lose accordingly.
"WOULD"
The word "would" is used to define the triggering condition
of some interrupt abilities, and establishes a higher timing
priority for those abilities than interrupts to the same
triggering condition without the word "would."
If an interrupt to a triggering condition that would
occur changes the nature of that which is about to
occur (such as through a replacement effect), no
further interrupts to the original trigger may be used
since the resolution of that trigger is no longer valid.
For example, an interrupt that states "when a character
would be defeated" triggers before an interrupt that states
"when a character is defeated."
See also: Interrupt, Replacement Effect, Triggered Ability
"X" (VALUE)
See: Non-Numerical Variable
YOU, YOUR
While resolving card abilities, if the word "you" can be
resolved as referring to the player's identity, it must be
resolved as such. This includes but is not limited to:
If a card deals damage to "you," or "you" take damage,
the player resolving that damage applies it to the hit
point dial of their identity.
If a card ability deals indirect damage to "you," or
"you" take indirect damage, the player resolving that
damage can assign that damage to characters in play
under their control.
If a card ability exhausts "you," the player resolving that
card ability exhausts their identity.
If a card ability places a status card on "you" (such
as "you are stunned"), the player resolving that card
ability places that status card on their identity.
If a card ability triggers from a game function that
"you" perform (such as "after you attack and defeat
an enemy"), the player resolving that card ability must
resolve that card ability as if the identity they control
performed that game function, if able. (For example,
if an ability triggers "after you attack and defeat a
minion," it triggers after the controlling player's identity
attacks and defeats a minion but not when an ally under
that player's control attacks and defeats a minion.)
While resolving card abilities, if the word "you" cannot
be resolved as referring to the player's identity, it must be
resolved as referring to the player. This includes but is not
limited to:
If a game step or card ability discards cards from
"your" hand, the player resolving that game step or
card ability discards the cards from their hand.
If a card ability searches "your" deck, the player
resolving that ability searches for cards in their deck.
If a game step or card ability performs a game function
against a non-identity card "you" control (such as
exhausting, discarding, setting aside, etc.), the player
resolving that game step or card ability performs that
game function against the card in their play area.
If a card ability triggers from a game function that
"you" perform and cannot be interpreted in such a way
that would refer to the resolving player's identity (such
as "after you discard cards from your hand"), the player
resolving that card ability must personally resolve and
perform the game function(s) of that ability.
Some player cards are considered to be an extension of a
player's identity. When an action and/or ability is resolved
by a card type that is an extension of an identity, that
action and/or ability is considered to be performed by
that identity.
Cards that are considered to be an extension of a player's
identity are:
Events - Attacks, thwarts, defenses, action abilities,
and triggered abilities that resolve from a player
playing an event are also considered to be performed
by that player's identity.
Resources - If a player spends a resource, that
resource is also considered to be spent by that player's
identity.
Upgrades - Unless attached to a different character,
upgrade cards are considered to be an extension
of the controlling player's identity. Attacks, thwarts,
defenses, action abilities, and triggered abilities that
resolve on upgrades in play under a player's control
are also considered to be resolved by that player's
identity.
Cards that are not considered to be an extension of a
player's identity are:
Allies - Attacks, thwarts, defenses, action abilities,
and triggered abilities that resolve from allies in play
under a player's control are not considered to be
performed by that player's identity.
Supports - Attacks, thwarts, defenses, action
abilities, and triggered abilities that resolve from
supports in play under a player's control are not
considered to be performed by that player's identity.
See also: Ability, Ally, Event, Identity, Player, Player Card,
Player Deck, Player's Play Area, Resource, Support, Upgrade
APPENDIX 08 DECK
GUSTOMIZATION
PLAYER DECKS
The deck customization rules for player decks are:
A player must choose exactly one identity card.
A player's deck consists of a minimum of 40 cards
and a maximum of 50 cards. The identity card is not
counted as part of this number.
A player's deck must include each of the identity-
specific cards associated with their chosen identity
card. The exact quantity of each card included in that
identity set must be included in the deck.
A player may choose exactly one aspect (Justice,
Aggression, Protection, or Leadership) to use for
customization. The remainder of their deck is then
customized with cards that belong to that aspect and/
or basic cards.
No more than three copies (by title) of each non-
unique card may be included in the deck.
No more than one copy (by title) of each unique card
may be included among the cards in the deck and the
identity card. If two unique cards share the same title,
but their subtitles/alter-egos differ, they may coexist
in the deck.
Any "deckbuilding requirements" on the player's
identity card must be followed.
ENCOUNTER DECKS
Each scenario comes with a recommended list of card sets
that form the default encounter deck for that scenario. (For
the core set scenarios, these lists are on page 23 of the
Learn to Play.) This recommended list can be modified in a
few different ways:
Expert mode is an option that can be used to
increase the difficulty of a scenario. Expert mode uses
a different combination of villain stages and adds the
expert encounter set to the encounter deck.
Most scenarios (including all of the scenarios in the
core set) include a modular encounter set within their
recommended list. To customize a scenario for a
different experience, remove the modular encounter
set from the list, and add any other modular
encounter set as desired.
It is possible to add multiple modular sets to a
scenario, but this will dilute the encounter deck if too
many are added.
To add an additional element of uncertainty to a
scenario, the modular set may be chosen from a
group of facedown sets, and shuffled directly into the
encounter deck without looking at the cards.
APPENDIX 0008
CARD ANATOMY
This section presents an anatomy of each card type. Player
APPENDIX 008
SETUP
To set up a game, perform the following steps in order:
1.
Select Identities. Each player selects one identity,
placing their alter-ego side face up.
2.
Set Hit Points. Each player sets their hit point dial
equal to the starting hit points of their character, found
at the bottom of their identity card.
3.
Select First Player. As a group, the players select a
first player and place the first player token in front of
that player.
4.
Set Aside Obligations. For each identity being
played, set aside their obligation card.
5.
Set Aside Nemesis Sets. For each identity being
played, set aside their nemesis and the encounter cards
of that nemesis.
6.
Shuffle Player Decks. Each player shuffles their player
deck.
7.
Collect Tokens and Status Cards. Collect a pool of
damage tokens, threat tokens, acceleration tokens, and
all-purpose counters within reach of each player. Place
stacks of stunned, confused, and tough status cards
near this pool.
8.
Select Villain. Select a villain and put their villain deck
and main scheme deck into play near the center of the
play area.
9.
Set the Villain's Hit Points. Set the villain's hit point
dial to the value indicated by the villain card.
10. Create the Encounter Deck. Combine the encounter
sets listed on side 1A of the main scheme card.
11. Resolve Scheme Setup. Resolve any "Setup"
instructions on side 1A of the main scheme card.
Resolve any "When Revealed" abilities on encounter
cards that entered play during setup.
12. Shuffle Encounter Deck. Shuffle the obligation
cards set aside during setup step four into the villain's
encounter deck.
13. Draw Cards. Each player draws cards from their deck
until they have cards equal in number to their starting
hand size, as listed near the bottom of their identity
card.
14. Resolve Mulligans. Each player may discard any
number of cards from hand, and then draw up to their
starting hand size. (Do not shuffle these discarded
cards back into their decks at this time.)
15. Resolve Character Setup Abilities. Resolve any
"Setup" instructions listed on identity cards in play.
The game is now ready to begin.
RULES REFERENCE
25
cards are detailed first, followed by scenario cards.
PLAYER CARD
ANATOMY KEY
1.
Title. The name of this card.
2.
Card Type. Indicates how this card behaves or
may be used in the game.
3. Traits. Flavorful attributes that may be
referenced by card abilities.
4. Ability. This card's specialized means of
interacting with the game.
5.
Cost. The resource cost to play this card.
6.
Hit Points. A value that represents this card's
durability.
7.
Resources. The resources this card generates
when it is discarded from hand.
8. Deckbuilding Classification. Indicates if this card
is exclusive to a hero, belongs to an aspect, or is a
basic card.
9. THW. How effective this character is at
opposing enemy schemes.
10. ATK. How effective this character is when it
attacks.
11. DEF. How effective this character is when it
defends.
12. REC. How effective this alter-ego is at
recovering damage.
13. Consequential Damage. The amount of damage
this ally takes after it is used for this power.
14. Hand Size. The number of cards this card's
controller resets their hand to each round.
15. Collector Information. Indicates this card's
product of origin and card number within that
product.
16. Unique Icon. Indicates that the card is unique.
17. Subtitle. Indicates an alternate identity an ally
might possess.
16
IDENTITY (HERO)
SPIDER-MAN
:
THW
0
ATK
DEF
11
HERO
AVENGER.
Spider-Sense - Interrupt: When the
villain initiates an attack against you,
draw 1 card.
"Just your friendly neighborhood Spider-Man!"
HAND SIZE 5 / HIT POINTS 10
1A
K
SUPPORT
+ THE TRISKELION
SUPPORT
-
LOCATION. S.H.I.E.L.De
Increase your ally limit by 1. (This allows
you to control more than 3 allies.)
"Think they made it tall enoug, She-Hulk
'EADERSHIP
7
7
SCENARIO CARD
ANATOMY KEY
1.
Title. The name of this card.
2.
Card Type. Indicates how this card behaves or
may be used in the game.
3. Traits. Flavorful attributes that may be
referenced by card abilities.
4. Ability. This card's specialized means of
interacting with the game.
5. Hit Points. A value that represents this card's
durability.
6.
SCH. How effective this enemy is when it schemes.
7.
ATK. How effective this enemy is when it attacks.
8.
Boost Icons. Indicates how effective this card is
when it is discarded as an attack boost or scheme
boost.
9.
Starting Threat. The amount of threat placed on
this scheme when it enters play.
10. Acceleration. The speed at which this scheme
advances each round.
11. Target Threat. The amount of threat required on
this scheme to advance to the next stage of this
scheme deck.
12. Stage Number. The stage of this villain or scheme
within the scenario.
13. Encounter Set Name. Indicates which
encounter set this card belongs to.
14. Encounter Set Information. Indicates the
number of cards within an encounter set and this
card's place within that set.
15. Collector Information. Indicates this card's
product of origin and card number within
that product.
SIDE SCHEME
7
ILLEGAL ARMS FACTORY
SIDE SCHEME
.
E
KLAW (20/21)
ALLY
+ DAREDEVIL
MATT MURDOCK
DEFENDER
Response: After Daredem varts,
deal 1 damage to an enemy.
"Gometimes, / think / more with my fists
UPGRADE
SKILL.
Play under any player's control.
Max 1 per player.
Your hero gets +1 ATK.
"Tony! She did it again!" -Janet Van Dyne
ALTER-EGO
©2019FFG 1B
RESOURCE
Max 1 per deck
VILLAIN
BRUTE. CRIMINAL.
"I'm Rhino. / knock things down. That's what I do.
MINION
CRIMINAL
When Revealed: Deal 1
"/ bet you're shocked to see me."
MARVEL 2019 FFG
]
.
12
5
4
ALLY
THW
a
2
ATK
a
IL
2
UPGRADE
a
Scientist - Resource: Generate a
rocking chair and a good book."
VILLAIN
SCH
ATK
MINION
SCH
ATK
:
E
15
:
7
2
o
17
0
2
7
.
7
t
ge to
than with my law firm."
IDENTITY
(ALTER-EGO)
PETER PARKER
GENIUS.
No resource. (Limit once per round.)
"Right now, I'd trade the whole Spider-Man bit for a
T
FHINO
That's who am."
RHINO (1/21)/ HIT POINTS 14.2
+ SHOCKER
each hero.
RHINO (12/21)
'USTICE
AGGRESSION
r
:
7
5
REC
A. 43A
BASIC
MARVELO
RULES REFERENCE
17
23
EVENT
1
WAKANDA FOREVER!
EVENT
TACTIC.
Hero Action: Resolve the "Special"
ability of each BLACK PANTHER upgrade
bu control in any order. (Resolving
each ability is a step in this sequence.)
BLACK PANTHER 3/15
RULES REFERENCE
Klaw is supplying villains dadvanced
weaponry from a clang the arms facility.
When Revealed: Place an
additional 12 threat here.
Illus. Andrea Di vito/laura Villari C MARVEL O 2019 FFG
A.126
RULES REFERENCE
36
5
38
HAND SIZE 6 / HIT POINTS 10
Z
1
RESOURCE
ENERGY
37
ATTACHMENT
ARMOR.
Attach to Rhino.
Forced Interrupt: When any
amount of damage would be
dealt to Rhino, place it here
instead. Then, if there is at least
5 damage here, discard Armored
Rhino Suit.
M ARVEL 0 2019 FFG
ENVIRONMENT
11
Each facedown DRONE minion engaged
with a player has a base SCH of 1, a
base ATK of 1, and a base hit points
Forced Response: After a facedown
DRONE minion is defeated, place that
MARVEL
OBLIGATION
BUSINESS PROBLEMS
Give to the Tony Stark player.
You may flip to alter-ego form. Choose:
Exhaust Tony Stark - remove
Business Problems from the game.
Exhaust each upgrade you control.
Discard this obligation.
RULES REFERENCE
APPENDIX IV. FAQ
Q: In the Core Set, there are 19 Aggression, Justice, and
Protection aspect cards, but only 18 Leadership aspect
A: Yes. The Leadership aspect received 1 fewer card than
the other aspects because it has more unique cards to
Q: When does the villain "initiate" an attack against
A: An attack is "initiated" the moment the game determines
an attack will be made against a character. This includes
attacks made from game steps (such as step 2 of the villain
phase) and card abilities (such as an attack initiated by the
"Assault" treachery). Spider Man's ability resolves before
any of the steps of the process detailed in the "Attack
A: Two attacks in total. Webbed Up prevents the attached
enemy's very next attack by replacing that attack with the
placement of a stun status card. Then, the stun status card
(indicated by the word "instead"), meaning the attack never
Q: Can Jennifer Walters remove threat from a side
A: No. Side schemes enter play with threat already on them,
Q: If threat is placed on a scheme during game setup,
A: No. Abilities that do not have the "Setup" timing trigger
Q: Can Legal Practice remove threat from multiple
A: No. All of the threat removed by Legal Practice must be
RULES REFERENCE
TREACHERY
When Revealed: If Bomb Scare is in
Jay, assign X damage among heroes
and allies, where X is the amount of
threat on Bomb Scare. If Bomb Scare
is not in play, this card gains surge.
MAIN SCHEME
+1.
O MARVEL O 2019 FFG
A.97B
:
© MARVEL. Fantasy Flight Supply is TM of Fantasy Flight Games. Fantasy Flight Games, the FFG
logo, Living Card Game, LCG, and the LCG logo are R Fantasy Flight Games. Fantasy Flight Games
is located at 1995 West County Road B2, Roseville, Minnesota, 55113, USA, 651-639-1905. Actual
Asmodee Nordics
Valseholmen 1
Q: Can Repulsor Blast's first point of damage remove
a tough status card from an enemy, then its additional
damage deal damage to that enemy?
A: No. The additional damage that Repulsor Blast deals is a
simultaneous modification of its first point of damage. For
instance, if a player were to discard 2 energy resources due
to Repulsor Blast, they would deal a total of 5 damage to an
enemy all at once, as the additional 4 damage dealt by the
discard effect happens at the same time as the first point of
Q: Does Pepper Potts generate 2 resources if a card with
2 printed resources (such as Energy, Genius, or Strength)
A: Yes. Pepper Potts generates a number of resources that
are equal in quantity and type to the resources on the top
Q: Will Pepper Potts generate 2 resources if a "The
Power of [Aspect]" resource card (such as The Power of
Aggression) is on top of the discard pile?
A: No. Though the resources that Pepper Potts generates
are equal in quantity and type to the resources of the top
card of the discard pile, Pepper Potts is the card that is
generating these resources. This means that a The Power
of [Aspect] card never generates resources itself, having no
opportunity to generate additional resources for a card of
Q: Can Pepper Potts generate the resources of a card
A: No. Resources are generated simultaneously, meaning
the spent card will not be on top of the discard pile at the
Q: If Iron Man has 1 hit point remaining and his Rocket
Boots upgrade is discarded from play, is Iron Man
A: Yes. If an ability that modifies hit points expires or
otherwise becomes inactive, the modified hit points revert
to the value they would be without the modifier. In this
case, Iron Man's hit points would revert to 0, instantly
Q: If an enemy initiates an attack against Black Panther
but another hero or an ally defends against that attack,
will Black Panther's retaliate ability trigger?
A: No. Black Panther himself must be attacked for retaliate
Q: If Black Panther defends against an attack, will his
A: Yes. As long as Black Panther himself is attacked, retaliate
EXPLOSION
TREACHERY
BOMB SCARE (4/6)
of
THE Break-In!
MAIN SCHEME
Rhino is trying to smash through the
facility wall and steal a shipment of
vibranium. You must stop him!
completed, the players
RHINO (4/21)
Alton Hampshire, GU34 2UD 2650 Hvidovre, Danemark
39
REPULSOR BLAST (#31)
is on top of the discard pile?
that is currently being spent?
time Pepper Potts uses her ability.
ROCKET BOOTS (#39)
BLACK PANTHER (#40A)
2
1
0
Asmodee United Kingdom
Enigma Distribution Benelux B.V.
Unit 6 Waterbrook Road
Wethouder Den Oudenstraat 8
5706 ST Helmond, Holland
damage.
defeated?
to trigger.
will trigger.
2
ENVIRONMENT
of 1.
card in its owner's discard pile.
ULTRON (7/25)
GENERAL QUESTIONS
(Enemy Activation)" section are performed.
Q: How many attacks does Webbed Up prevent?
will prevent that enemy's following attack.
Q: Does Webbed Up prevent Spider-Sense from
A: Yes. Webbed Up's ability is a replacement effect
JENNIFER WALTERS (#19B)
meaning threat is not "placed" at this point.
does Jennifer Walters's ability trigger?
cannot resolve during game setup.
LEGAL PRACTICE (#23)
removed from a single scheme.
7
RHINO (5/21)
ULTRON DRONES
SPIDER-MAN (#1A)
scheme as it enters play?
schemes simultaneously?
15
PEPPER POTTS (#33)
retaliate ability trigger?
:
7
7
E
13
cards. Is this correct?
choose from.
CORE SET
Spider-Man?
WEBBED UP (#9)
initiates.
7
TB
Illus. Matt James
MARVEL
LCG
components may vary from those shown.
Imported and distributed in the EU by:
defeating him.
12
If this stage is
lose the game.
card of the discard pile.
its specified aspect.
17
OBLIGATION
7
IRON MAN
United Kingdom
triggering?
in
ANCESTRAL KNOWLEDGE (#42)
Q: Can Ancestral Knowledge shuffle different versions
of Wakanda Forever into Black Panther's deck?
A: No. Cards with the same title are considered to be the
same card for the purpose of card abilities.
VIBRANIUM SUIT (#49)
Q: Does moving damage discard tough status cards from
the target enemy?
A: Yes. If damage is moved to a character, the moved
damage is considered to be dealt to that character.
TIGRA/GREER GRANT NELSON (#51)
Q: Does Tigra's "Response" ability trigger before or
after she takes consequential damage?
A: Before. The "After Tigra attacks and defeats a minion..
condition is checked immediately after Tigra defeats a
minion with her attack power, but before consequential
damage is applied to her.
MAKE THE CALL (#71)
Q: When playing Make the Call, do "The Power
of [Aspect]" resource cards (such as The Power of
Leadership) generate 1 resource or 2 resources?
A: Make the Call's text states "Action: Pay the printed
cost of an ally in any player's discard pile... meaning the
player is paying the cost of the ally itself. If that ally's aspect
matches that of The Power of [Aspect] card, then The Power
of [Aspect] card will generate 2 resources. However, if that
ally's aspect does not match, The Power of [Aspect] card will
only generate 1 resource.
GREEN GOBLIN SCENARIO PACK
NORMAN OSBORN (#1A)
Q: Will a stun status card prevent Norman Osborn's
attack activation?
A: Yes. Because status cards take priority over all other
abilities, a stun status card will prevent Norman Osborn's
activation.
GREEN GOBLIN (#1B)
Q: While Green Goblin is attacking, if the last madness
counter is removed from the State of Madness
environment through a "Boost" ability, what happens?
A: Green Goblin immediate flips to Norman Osborn form.
Boost icons from the boost card are then added to Norman
Osborn's ATK value of which is treated as a value of 0.
Norman Osborn then deals damage from the attack equal
to his modified ATK value (base of 0 ATK, plus the number
of boost icons on the boost card). In this specific situation,
Norman Osborn's "Forced Interrupt" does not trigger,
as the attack is already past the point of "When Norman
Osborn
would attack " by the time he changes to his
Norman Osborn form.
I SEE YOU (#30)
Q: If I'm in alter-ego form and I reveal "I See You", does
Green Goblin attack me?
A: Yes. Because the "When Revealed" ability on I See You
does not specify hero form or alter-ego form, Green Goblin
STEVE ROGERS (#1B)
Q: If Captain America's Shield is put into play as a Drone
minion during game setup for Ultron, can I retrieve it
with Steve Rogers's Setup ability?
A: No. The Setup ability specifically searches the player's
deck and discard pile. If Captain America's Shield is not in
Q: If an ally is played while I'm Captain America, then I
change form to Steve Rogers, will Steve Rogers's "Living
Legend" ability still apply to the next ally played?
A: No. Living Legend only applies to the very first ally
played each round.
EMBIGGEN (#10)
Q: If an ATTACK event deals multiple sources of damage
(such as the Aggression event, Melee), how does
Embiggen work?
A: Embiggen increases all instances of damage that an
ATTACK event deals by 2. For example, if an event were to deal
3 damage, then deal 3 damage again, that event would now
deal 5 damage, then 5 damage again.
SHRINK (#11)
Q: When playing Emergency, can I exhaust Shrink to
remove 2 threat from a scheme?
A: No. Shrink increases each instance of threat removed by
a thwart event. Because Emergency only prevents threat
and does not remove any, Shrink will have no effect.
NOVA/SAM ALEXANDER (#12)
Q: If Nova's ability defeats an attacking enemy, does
A: No. Although the attack sequence has initiated, damage
from that attack has not yet been calculated. If Nova defeats
the enemy during this step, the rest of the attack sequence
fails to resolve.
MELEE (#30)
Q: Can Melee deal damage to the same enemy twice?
A: No. When Melee deals damage a second time, that
damage must be dealt to an enemy that is different from the
first. Note that different stages of the villain are considered
to be the same enemy.
Q: If I'm engaged with a minion with guard, can I target
that minion and the villain, as long as the minion would
A: Yes, as long as you defeat the minion with the first
sentence of the ability on Melee, you may deal damage to
will attack the player no matter their form.
CAPTAIN AMERICA HERO PACK
either game area, the ability fails to find it.
MS. MARVEL HERO PACK
that enemy's attack still deal damage?
be destroyed by the damage done by Melee?
the villain with the second sentence of the ability.
"
RULES REFERENCE
h1
THOR HERO PACK
JARNBJORN (#19)
Q: Can I trigger Jarnbjorn after I play an ATTACK event?
A: Yes. A hero is considered to make an attack both through
their basic attack power and actions with the (attack) label.
BLACK WIDOW HERO PACK
DANCE OF DEATH (#4)
Q: Dance of Death does not contain the (attack)
label. Are each of its damage-dealing effects actually
considered attacks or is this a mistake?
A: The first sentence of Dance of Death's ability defines
each damage-dealing effect from Dance of Death as an
individual attack. Resolve each as a normal attack, one at
a time.
Q: If Black Widow is stunned, will each attack from
Dance of Death be prevented, or just the first attack?
A: Because Dance of Death creates three separate attacks,
a stun status card on Black Widow will only prevent the first
attack. The second and third attack can be performed as
normal.
ATTACROBATICS (#6)
Q: Can Attacrobatics cancel 0 boost icons?
A: No. Attacrobatics cannot be used to cancel the boost
icons on a card that has none as doing as would not change
the game state.
WIDOWS BITE (#10)
Q: If I have Widow's Bite in play and I reveal a minion
with quickstrike, which resolves first?
A: Widow's Bite resolves first. Widow's Bite triggers after
the minion enters play, which is one step before the minion
engages a player.
DOCTOR STRANGE HERO PACK
THE NIGHT NURSE (#19)
Q: If the only status card on a hero is a tough status
card, is it discarded if I use The Night Nurse to heal that
hero?
A: Yes. The Night Nurse's ability discards 1 status card from
that hero, no matter the type.
UNFLAPPABLE (#20)
Q: If while defending against an enemy attack, my
identity takes damage from a "Boost" ability but takes
no damage from the attacking enemy otherwise, can I
still trigger Unflappable to draw a card?
A: Yes. The cost of the ability on Unflappable only requires
that the defending identity take no damage during step 4 of
the enemy attack.
COUNTERSPELL (#30)
Q: Counterspell says "Attach to your hero." If I draw
Counterspell while in alter-ego form, what happens?
A: Counterspell attempts to attach to your hero but cannot.
Because it is unable to meet its condition, simply discard
it. (Do not reveal a new encounter card in its place.)
IMAGES OF IKONN (#33)
Q: Can I resolve Images of Ikonn if the villain is already
confused and there is no threat on a scheme?
A: Yes. As long as any part of the ability on Images of Ikonn
can change the game state, then it will do as many effects
as it is able. While its first effect may fail to change the
game state if the villain is already confused and there is no
threat on a scheme, its second effect can change the game
state by placing itself in the INVOCATION deck discard pile.
HULK HERO PACK
CRUSHING BLOW (#2)
Q: If Crushing Blow's resource cost is reduced to 0, can
it be played without spend
A: Yes. The "You can only spend
resources to pay for this
card" ability on Crushing Blow only applies when actual
resources are being spent to pay for its resource cost. If its
resource cost is reduced to 0, no resources are required to
pay for Crushing Blow, so no
resources must be spent.
UNSTOPPABLE FORCE (#6)
Q: If Unstoppable Force's resource cost is reduced to 0,
will I draw 1 card from its second ability?
A: No. Because no resources were spent to pay for
Unstoppable Force's resource cost, its "If you paid for this
ability using only resources. condition was not fulfilled,
so that effect will not resolve.
CLASH OF TITANS (#28)
Q: If my highest-ATK character is an ally, and the attack
from Clash of Titans is undefended, which takes the
damage: my identity or the ally that was attacked?
A: The ally will take all damage from the undefended attack.
RISE OF RED SKULL EXPANSION
HAWKEYE'S QUIVER (#3)
Q: After using Hawkeye's Quiver to search the top
5 cards of my deck, what should I do with those cards?
A: Shuffle those cards back into Hawkeye's deck. After
a search ability is completed-no matter if that ability
searches the whole deck or only a portion of the deck-the
entire deck is shuffled.
MARKED FOR DEATH (#28)
Q: When Marked for Death is revealed, if a copy of
Mockingbird is already under a player's control who is
not Clint Barton, what happens?
A: The Clint Barton player must search for Mockingbird in
their hand, deck, discard pile, and play area, though cannot
place their Mockingbird under Marked for Death as there
is already a unique character in play with the same title/
subtitle (shuffle after searching a deck). However, when
Marked for Death is defeated, any copy of Mockingbird in
play (even one controlled by another player) is returned to
its owner's hand.
resources?
RULES REFERENCE
JESSICA DREW (#31B)
Q: Does Jessica Drew's Double Agent ability require her
deck to be built with two aspects?
A: Yes. An equal number of cards from two different aspects
must be included in her deck.
FINESSE (#33)
Q: Can Finesse generate a resource to pay for an aspect
card's ability (such as Jarnbjorn)?
A: Yes. As long as the resource generated by Finesse is
spent on an aspect card (its resource cost or a cost within
that aspect card's ability), Finesse can be used.
THE ONCE AND FUTURE KANG
SCENARIO PACK
DEPOWERED (#20)
Q: If Depowered is in Doctor Strange's play area, can the
Doctor Strange player still use the INVOCATION deck?
A: Yes. The abilities on cards in the INVOCATION deck are merely
resolved, not played.
WASP HERO PACK
WASP (#1C)
Q: While Wasp is in GIANT hero form, how does her first
ability interact the patrol keyword and the crisis icon?
A: Wasp's first ability allows her basic thwart to
simultaneously remove threat from each scheme that Wasp
chooses. Although Wasp may choose the main scheme as
a target while a card with the patrol keyword or a crisis icon
is in play, no threat will be removed from the main scheme.
Due to the simultaneous nature of this ability, this applies
even if the card with the patrol keyword or crisis icon is
removed from play during her basic thwart's resolution.
Q: While Wasp is in GIANT hero form, how does her second
ability interact with the guard keyword?
A: Wasp's second ability allows her basic attack to
simultaneously damage each enemy that Wasp chooses.
Although Wasp may choose the villain as a target while a
card with the guard keyword is in play, no damage will be
dealt to the villain. Due to the simultaneous nature of this
ability, this applies even if the card with the guard keyword
is removed from play during her basic attack's resolution.
Q: While Wasp is in GIANT hero form, how does her second
ability interact with multiple enemies who have the
retaliate keyword?
A: Wasp is considered to attack each target affected by her
divided basic attack. If Wasp's basic attack is divided among
multiple enemies with the retaliate keyword, each instance
of retaliate will damage Wasp (in the order of her choice).
Q: If I play one scenario in expert mode, do I have to
play the next scenario using the same mode?
A: No. The players may, for instance, play one scenario of
the campaign using a combination of standard, heroic,
and skirmish modes, then play the next scenario of the
campaign using simply expert mode. Players can mix and
match modes as they see fit between each scenario in
a campaign.
ROCKET RACCOON (#29A)
Q: If Rocket Raccoon uses his "Tinkering" ability but the
TECH upgrade is not placed into a discard pile (such as due
QUICKSILVER HERO PACK
QUICKSILVER (#1A)
Q: If Quicksilver attempts to make a basic attack or basic
thwart while stunned or confused, can his Super Speed
ability trigger?
A: No. Stunned and confused status cards replace the usage
of the basic power with their removal. If Quicksilver makes a
basic attack while stunned or a basic thwart while confused,
he is not considered to have used a basic power and the
condition of his Super Speed ability is not met.
SCARLET WITCH HERO PACK
HEX BOLT (#4)
Q: For the second sentence of Hex Bolt, do the bulleted
abilities resolve each time a card is discarded from the
encounter deck, or do the bulleted abilities resolve after
all 3 cards have been discarded?
A: As Hex Bolt does not contain an alteration effect, resolve
the first sentence of Hex Bolt entirely, without interruption.
Then, determine and resolve the appropriate bulleted
abilities based off of what was discarded.
SLIPPING SANITY (#23)
Q: Is it intentional that Scarlet Witch has two obligation
cards?
A: Yes. Scarlet Witch's powers are chaotic, often working
in her favor, though also sometimes working against her.
While she has many cards within her personal set that
represent the positive facets of her powers, having multiple
obligations represents the negative facets.
GALAXY'S MOST WANTED EXPANSION
MODULAR ENCOUNTER SETS
Q: In the Galaxy's Most Wanted Expansion, which sets
are considered modular encounter sets?
A: If an encounter set is not scenario-specific (containing
the name of that scenario in its encounter set name area)
or campaign-specific (containing the word "Campaign"
in its encounter set name area), then it is modular. The
eight modular encounter sets in the Galaxy's Most Wanted
Expansion are: Badoon Headhunter, Band of Badoon,
Galactic Artifacts, Kree Militants, Menagerie Medley,
Power Stone, Space Pirates, and Ship Command.
CAMPAIGN MODE
Q: Do I have to play in expert mode for each scenario in
an expert campaign?
A: No. Increasing a campaign's difficulty merely adds
additional cards or setup instructions to each scenario in
that campaign. It does not lock players into any other mode
of play. For each scenario within a campaign, players are
encouraged to choose the other modes of play that are
right for them.
APPENDIX V.
ERRATA
CAPTAIN AMERICA HERO PACK
HONORARY AVENGER (#25)
Should read: "Play only if your identity has the AVENGER
trait. Attach to a friendly character. Max 1 per character.
Attached character gets +1 hit point and gains the AVENGER
RULES REFERENCE
/2
trait.' (Added "Max 1 per character.")
FOLLOWED (#32)
Should read: "Interrupt: When attached scheme is
defeated, deal 4 damage to an enemy." (Changed
"Response" to "Interrupt".)
THOR HERO PACK
LIGHTNING STRIKE (#6)
Should read: "Hero Action: Spend X s resources
X damage to the villain and each minion engaged with you.
This damage ignores tough status cards if you have the
AERIAL trait." (Changed "attack" to "damage".)
LOKI (#28)
Should read: "Forced Interrupt: When Loki would be
defeated, discard the top card of the encounter deck. If
that card is a treachery, heal all damage from Loki instead."
(Changed "Interrupt" to "Forced Interrupt".)
THE WRECKING CREW SCENARIO PACK
"I'VE BEEN WAITING FOR THIS!" (#41)
Should read: "When Revealed: The active villain heals 3 hit
points. Give that villain a tough status card." (Changed
"gains" to "heals".)
DOCTOR STRANGE HERO PACK
IRON FIST (#14)
Should read: "Interrupt: When Iron Fist attacks an enemy,
remove 1 mystic counter from him stun that enemy and
deal 1 damage to it." (Changed "Response" to "Interrupt".)
WARNING (#21)
Should read: "Interrupt: When a hero would take any
amount of damage, reduce that amount by 1." (Removed
"(defense)" and the DEFENSE trait.)
HULK HERO PACK
INNER DEMONS (#25)
Should read: "Give to the Bruce Banner player. Change
form (flip your identity). If you are Bruce Banner, discard
2 cards from your hand. Discard this obligation. If you are
Hulk, exhaust your hero. Discard this obligation.' (Removed
"Then:".)
to Collector's ability), will Rocket Raccoon draw 2 cards?
A: Yes. Discarding is the act of attempting to place a
card into a discard pile. Even if the TECH upgrade ends up
in a different game area, the cost of Rocket Raccoon's
"Tinkering" ability was still paid.
SALVAGE (#33)
Q: If the Hulk ally (Core Set #50) discards Salvage, what
happens?
A: Hulk's ability checks all printed resources on Salvage
simultaneously, then resolves the appropriate effect
based on the result. Because this check and resolution is
simultaneous, the player who controls Hulk chooses the
order in which the effects resolve.
POWER STONE (#149)
Q: If an identity who controls the Power Stone is
defeated, what happens to the Power Stone?
A: If a player is eliminated from the game while a
permanent card they do not own is in their play area,
place that permanent card in its owner's discard pile. In
the case of the Power Stone, place it in the encounter
discard pile.
RISE OF RED SKULL EXPANSION
AVENGERS TOWER (#21)
Should have the AVENGER trait.
MARKED FOR DEATH (#28)
Should read: "When Revealed: The Clint Barton player
searches their hand, deck, discard pile, and play area for
Mockingbird and places her faceup beneath this card. When
this scheme is defeated, return Mockingbird to her owner's
hand.' (Changed "stage" to "scheme".)
HAIL HYDRA! (#57, #147)
Should read: "When Revealed: Each HYORA minion engaged
with a hero attacks that hero. Each player who was not
attacked this way searches the encounter deck and discard
pile for a HYORA minion and puts it into play engaged with
them. Shuffle the encounter deck if it was searched."
(Changed the shuffle ability to only occur if the encounter
deck is searched.)
ATTACK ON MOUNT ATHENA (#61A)
Should read: "Contents: Crossbones (I) and Crossbones
(II). Crossbones, Experimental Weapons, and Standard
Encounter sets. Three modular sets (Hydra Assault, Weapon
Master, and Legions of Hydra)." (Changed "Hydra Patrol" to
"Hydra Assault".)
GALAXY'S MOST WANTED EXPANSION
PG. 18, CAMPAIGN INSTRUCTIONS, SETUP, BULLET 1
Should read: "(Optional) Reveal the Kree Supremacy (#182A)
side scheme (use the reverse side for expert mode)."
(Added "(Optional)" before the instruction.)
deal
RULES REFERENCE
RULES REFERENCE
44
45
